We use cookies and similar tools to give you the best website experience. By using our site, you accept our Websites Privacy Policy . Close If you need help accessing our website, call 855-698-9991 Open accessibility Menu. Please wait while loading the accessibility menu. Open Accessibility Menu Accessibility Menu not currently available on this page. If you need help, call 855-698-9991 Skip to main content Patient Care Education & Research NYU Grossman School of Medicine NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine MyChart Patient Login . Opens in a new tab Patient Forms Contact Give Explore NYU Langone Health Open Menu Search Education & Research Back Menu Close Menu Find a Doctor Care & Services We offer the highest quality of care and expertise in all specialty care areas. Explore Our Services Specialty Care Brain & Spine Care Cancer Care NYU Langone Heart NYU Langone Orthopedics Pediatrics & Hassenfeld Children's Hospital Primary Care Women's Health View All Services Same-Day Care Emergency Care Urgent Care Virtual Urgent Care Imaging Services Our radiology experts offer imaging services from CT and MRI scans to ultrasound and X-ray throughout the New York City area. Learn about our imaging services and how to schedule an appointment. View Imaging Services Digital Services NYU Langone Health App Video Doctor Visits Locations Find care close to you at our locations throughout the New York City area and in Florida. Find a Location Locations by Region Manhattan Brooklyn Queens Staten Island Nassau Suffolk & East End Westchester New Jersey Florida Hospitals Tisch Hospital Kimmel Pavilion Hassenfeld Children's Hospital NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Conditions We Treat Explore our approach to diagnosing and treating adults and children. View All Conditions Common Categories Airway, Breathing & Lung Conditions Bone, Joint & Muscle Disorders Brain & Nervous System Disorders Cancers, Tumors & Blood Disorders Diabetes & Other Endocrine Conditions Digestive & Gastrointestinal Conditions Ear, Nose, Throat & Mouth Conditions Eye Conditions Genetic & Chromosomal Disorders Heart & Vascular Conditions Immune System Disorders Infectious Diseases Kidney, Liver & Urinary Conditions Mental & Behavioral Health Nutrition & Weight Management Pediatric Conditions Reproductive & Sexual Health Skin & Cosmetic Conditions Patient & Visitor Support Learn about our support services and find information to help you before, during, and after your visit. View All Support Patient Information Hospital Stay Doctor's Office Visit Medical Records MyChart Access For New & Expecting Parents Billing, Insurance & Financial Assistance Guest Services For Children Doctor’s Office Visit Child Life Services Social Work & Care Management Visitor Information Learn more about our visiting hours and policies and how we maintain a safe environment for all. View Hours & Policies Specialized Services Language & Disability Services Caring for the LGBTQ+ Community Veterans & Military Families International Services Search Patient Care Site search Clear Search search Main content NYU Langone Health The Most Top 10–Ranked Specialties in New York Learn More Find a Doctor and Schedule Search more than 4,000 doctors by specialty, condition, treatment, or name. Better health starts with a better health system If you need care today, schedule a Virtual Urgent Care visit Explore Our Locations and Programs Find the services you need at one of our 600 locations and programs across the New York City area and Florida. Explore Our Locations Learn About the Conditions We Treat Our experts diagnose and treat all conditions, from the most common to the most complex. Find a Condition Your Health—In Your Hands See a care provider, schedule an appointment, access your medical records, and more using the NYU Langone Health app. Schedule a Virtual Urgent Care Visit If you or your child has a minor medical concern and needs care, schedule a Virtual Urgent Care visit with an NYU Langone care provider. Learn More and Schedule Download the NYU Langone Health App Download our app and sign in with your NYU Langone Health MyChart account to stay connected to your care. Download Our App Our Latest News Patient Care, Press Releases NYU Langone Earns Top Rankings for Third Consecutive Year Vizient ranks us as the No. 1 comprehensive academic medical center in the United States for quality and patient safety. NYU Langone Health Launches National Campaign Patient Care, Complex Cases, Innovation Woman Loses 100 pounds After Complex Surgeries to Fix Knees Research, Press Releases Blood Test May Soon Be Possible for Early-Stage Alzheimer’s Patient Care, Locations, Press Releases NYU Langone Acquires Three Rothman Orthopaedics Practices Research, Innovation, Press Releases Newborn Brain Circuit Stabilizes Gaze Psilocybin Therapy May Address Mental Health Concerns View All News We can help you find a doctor. Call 646-929-7800 or browse our specialists Explore NYU Langone Expand menu Insurance & Billing About Us Our Story Jobs Vendor & Supplier Information Contact Us How to Help Volunteer Blood Donation Organ & Tissue Donation Stay Connected NewsHub Press Releases Media Resources NYU Health Sciences Library New York University Follow Us Follow us on Facebook. Opens in a new window. 𝕏 Follow us on X. Opens in a new window. Follow us on Instagram. Opens in a new window. Subscribe to our YouTube channel. Opens in a new window. Follow us on LinkedIn. Opens in a new window. © 2024 NYU Langone Hospitals Price Transparency Policies & Disclaimers Public Notices Accessibility Accessibility Help Line:&nbsp Skip to content Recruitment Events Check Application Status Job cart Toggle Navigation Work With Us Our Organization Inclusion Career Areas For Current Employees Search Jobs Home shandy 2024-12-30T17:59:36+00:00 Join the Team That Delivers the Highest Standard of Care Make a difference every day at NYU Langone Health. Join us as we deliver outstanding care at our patient-centered, world-class, integrated academic medical center. Enter Keywords or MOS Code to Search Jobs Careers Grow Your Career With Unparalleled Support and Possibilities NYU Langone is a forward-thinking, collaborative organization with a supportive and welcoming work environment. We are committed to helping all our staff reach their full potential by investing in state-of-the-art facilities and innovative training and development programs. Join us now for career growth opportunities in a dynamic workplace focused on process improvement, staff development, and the ongoing expansion and enhancement of our services. Learn More About Our Careers This Week’s Featured Jobs Find the Perfect Position for Your Experience and Expertise We’d love to have you join our dedicated and compassionate team of healthcare professionals. Explore our current job openings to begin a rewarding career with us. Senior Grants Specialist Hospital Administration New York, NY Polysomnography (Sleep) Technologist, NYU Langone Sleep Center, Garden City Polysomnography Garden City, NY Per Diem-Massage Therapist - **Cancer Center/Oncology Cert highly preferred** Rehabilitation Therapy Program Manager, Speech Language Pathology Faculty Group Practice Senior Ultrasound Tech - Manhattan (35) Allied Health Our Mission, Culture, and Values Matter We are a culture of exceptionalism. We measure ourselves against ourselves— Because we’re our own toughest competition. We are audacious innovators Who lead with science and evidence, Treat every role as the most important, And connect as one integrated health system. We never lose sight of why we’re here— To care. To teach. To discover. To compassionately deliver the best possible outcomes, For our patients and for each other. What Matters to Us Culture & Values Benefits Recent Awards World-Class Care Our Culture & Values Working at NYU Langone means believing in care that is patient-centered, collaborative, safe, adherent to best practices, ethical, respectful, based on standards of excellence, focused on improving individual and system outcomes, and available to our extended community. Learn More About Our Culture and Values Our Helpful Benefits NYU Langone offers a comprehensive benefits package with many great perks and programs to meet the many needs of our diverse workforce. Our benefits program is flexible and adapts to the ever-changing needs of our employees. That’s why NYU Langone employees can choose the plans that best fit their stage of life, family situation, and more. Learn More About Our Benefits One of Our Recent Awards The American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) awarded Magnet® recognition to NYU Langone’s Manhattan inpatient locations and several of its larger ambulatory sites in the city for the fifth consecutive time, recognizing excellence in nursing. Only three other hospitals in New York State have received Magnet designation five or more times. The ANCC’s prestigious Magnet Recognition Program is one of the leading benchmarks for measuring patients' quality of care. World-Class Care in New York City and Beyond NYU Langone is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers, dedicated to delivering world-class, patient-centered care. Located in the heart of vibrant Manhattan, we are continuously expanding our services to Brooklyn, the Long Island communities, and beyond. Learn More About Our Organization Our Awards Reflect a Commitment to Excellence at Every Level Our People Are the Best and Do Their Best Vizient, Inc., has ranked NYU Langone the No. 1 comprehensive academic medical center in the country for three years in a row, and U.S. News & World Report recently placed nine of its clinical specialties among the top five in the nation. This achievement reflects the unwavering skill of our exceptional faculty and staff and the outstanding patient-centered care they deliver to the communities we serve. Everyone Is Welcome to Achieve and Succeed At NYU Langone, we accomplish our mission to CARE, TEACH and DISCOVER through an inclusive culture devoted to excellence. We strive to be a place where our faculty, staff and students of all identities can practice, teach and discover with pride. Learn More About Our Inclusive Culture Upcoming Recruitment Events Our Recruitment Events Provide New Possibilities for You Virtual Interview Day - Sleep Technologist Virtual Interview Day - Psychotherapist (LCSW) - Remote Opportunities Available Virtual Interview Day Fridays! Medical Assistant - Center for Men's Health Manhattan Virtual Interview Day Fridays! - Ambulatory Care Nurse - Long Island Clinical Histology Tech I (Monday - Friday 5pm to 1am) Virtual Interview Day - LPN Lake Success Virtual Interview Day - Physician Assistant - New Grads Welcome! See Full Recruitment Event Calendar Follow Us on LinkedIn Follow NYU Langone Health on LinkedIn Job Search For Current Employees Job Search Connect With Us on Social Media! Facebook LinkedIn Youtube Instagram X Indeed Opens in a new window For disability assistance with your application, including to request an accommodation, please call us at 855-698-9989 . For technical difficulties, email us at openhire-applicationissues@nyulangone.org Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Statement Notice of Non-Discrimination Equal Employment Opportunity Notice of Privacy Practices Site Map Patient Care at NYU Langone Health Education & Research at NYU Langone Health AEDT Bias Audit Results © 2025 NYU Langone Hospitals Page load link Websites Privacy Policy. Go to Top Jump to site navigation Search this site Rock Climber Back on Her Feet After Traumatic Injuries in Death-Defying Fall Her broken ankle and heel were repaired by surgeons and sports medicine physicians; and physical therapists got her back to climbing. Read Story Gene-Edited Pig Kidney Gives Living Donor New Lease on Life The surgery marks the latest promising breakthrough in the emerging practice of xenotransplantation. The Hospital That Turned ‘Do No Harm’ into Climate Action Our sustainability report unveils the most detailed look yet at our climate journey. Research , Psychedelic Drug Therapy May Address Mental Health Concerns in People with Cancer & Addiction Psilocybin-assisted psychotherapy prompted personality changes in those with alcohol use disorder. January 2, 2025 Media Contacts Our media relations staff is committed to responding quickly to media inquiries. NYU Langone Health Facts at a Glance NYU Langone’s mission, locations, finances, workforce, recognition, schools, and leadership. Innovation How a Newborn Brain Circuit Comes to Stabilize Gaze The circuit tunes itself early in life, as an animal develops. Newfound Mechanism May Explain Why Some Cancer Treatments Boost Risk of Heart Disease Therapy may interfere with immune regulation in the heart’s largest blood vessels. December 2, 2024 How NYU Langone’s Midwives Are Redefining Maternity Care NYU Langone’s midwives provide compassionate, patient-centered maternity care. November 26, 2024 Brain Mapping Advances Understanding of Human Speech & Hallucinations in Schizophrenia New insights into how we sort out background sounds from our own voices. December 3, 2024 Corneal Transplantation Saved This Contact Lens Wearer’s Eyesight ‘Patients now rarely need to wait for a sight-sparing transplant.’ November 29, 2024 Study Details How Cancer Cells Fend Off Starvation & Death from Chemotherapy It had been unclear how the altered metabolism of the tumor microenvironment impacts chemotherapy. Celebrating a Culture of Child & Family Centered Care: ‘Sala-bration’ Event Honors Leaders in Pediatric Care The event raised over $3.2 million to support Sala Institute and honored Dr. Jason Fisher. November 22, 2024 Filter News by Category Education Leaders in Medicine Complex Cases In the Media Translational Medicine Digital Health Current site Current page For Veterans & Military Families Specialists at NYU Langone Military Family Clinic provide the highest quality, confidential mental health services for veterans, active duty service members, and their families. We also conduct clinical studies to improve the diagnosis and treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder , traumatic brain injury, and depression among current and former members of the military. We recognize that every veteran and active service member deserves access to the best treatment available for any trauma they may have experienced while defending our nation. Our services include treatment for post-traumatic stress, anxiety, depression, relationship and family conflicts, parenting concerns, readjustment issues, grief and loss, and alcohol and substance abuse. VIDEO: Former Marine Corps captain Lamar Winslow talks about receiving care at NYU Langone Military Family Center after experiencing symptoms of stress related to his military service. NYU Langone Military Family Clinic offers compassionate and confidential care for veterans and their families. Learn more about the Military Family Clinic Discover Our Philosophy of Care International Patient Services Last Updated: July 8, 2022 NYU Langone Health (“we,” “our,” “NYULH”) is committed to respecting your digital privacy. This Privacy Statement applies to personal information NYULH collects through our websites: https://nyulangone.org https://med.nyu.edu , and https://medli.nyu.edu (collectively, the “Websites”). This Privacy Statement only applies to the Websites and does not apply to personal information collected offline or on any other apps or websites, including websites otherwise maintained, controlled, or related to us. This Privacy Statement does not apply to online services, including apps and websites, not maintained or controlled by us, including sites or online services you may access through links or embedded features on the Websites. Other online services may have their own privacy policies, which we encourage you to read before providing information on or through them. Personal Information Collected Directly from You When you visit the Websites, you may choose to submit personal information to us, and our vendors, such as by inputting your information to join a mailing list. We, and our vendors, may use that information for such purposes as fulfilling your requests for our information or services, communicating information that may be of interest to you, and conducting research surveys. Online Tracking Technologies The Websites may passively collect and store certain information, through a variety of tracking technologies, such as cookies and pixels, about your visit, such as data sent by your web browser, including the internet address of your computer (IP address), details about your web browser and operating system, demographics, and about your usage of the Websites, such as pages visited, length of visit, and search queries, geolocation, the URL that referred you to the Websites, the time of the visit, and other traffic data (including anonymous traffic data). Types of tracking technologies we, and our vendors, may use: Functional, Necessary, and Performance:  We, and our vendors, may use tracking to provide functionality to the Websites and help us deliver our products and services. For example, to help us route traffic between servers, retain user preferences, allow account log ins (including returning users), and understand how the Websites are performing. Analytics and Research: We, and our vendors, may use tracking to understand, improve, and research features and content on the Websites, including how users use the Websites and the content and products that users view most frequently. Location: We may use location-aware technologies to locate you, including as determined by your IP address, for purposes such as verifying your location and delivering or restricting content based on your location. Our Websites may be personalized to provide you with more location-relevant content. Social Media: We may allow you to use social networking sign-on services that allow you to register and access the Websites using your social media networking credentials. Additionally, even if you do not register on the Websites using social media credentials, communicating the Websites’ content to your social media account may be available, for example when you share the Websites’ content to your social media account while logged into your social media account. We may also use social media vendors to provide measurement and conversion tracking services, lead generation services, and provide you ads on your social media accounts through matched or tailored advertising. This may include social media vendors storing or accessing tracking technologies. For example, we may provide social media vendors, such as LinkedIn and Facebook, information such as contact and event information for matched advertising purposes only. Social media vendors may combine this information with information they collect through tracking technologies and through their own platforms such as your interactions on the Websites (including when you share the Websites’ content to your social media page) to provide you relevant advertising on their platform. Social media vendors differ in their practices, and may provide tailored advertising that does not include matched ads. For more information, refer to the social media platforms you use and their resources, including their opt out process. We do not control how social media vendors perform their services or how their opt out process works. For convenience, you may refer to some of Twitter’s practices here: https://help.twitter.com/en/safety-and-security/privacy-controls-for-tailored-ads , and LinkedIn’s practices here: https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/answer/62931 Security:  We, and our vendors, may use tracking technology to enable security features and allow us to detect activity that might violate our rules and Terms, such as unauthorized access or activity. Marketing and Online Behavioral Advertising: We may use tracking technologies to provide advertisements on external-party online services, ad targeting, and preform cross-device tracking for advertising purposes. Certain external parties may participate in the Digital Advertising Alliance (“DAA”) AdChoices Program and may display an Advertising Option Icon for Interest-based Ads that links to an opt-out tool which allows you to exercise certain choices regarding targeting. You can learn more about the DAA AdChoices Program at http://www.youradchoices.com and its opt-out program for mobile apps at http://www.aboutads.info/appchoices . In addition, certain advertising networks and exchanges may participate in the Network Advertising Initiative (“NAI”). NAI has developed a tool that allows consumers to opt out of certain interest-based ads delivered by NAI members’ ad networks. To learn more about opting out of such targeted advertising or to use the NAI tool, see http://www.networkadvertising.org/choices and https://www.networkadvertising.org/mobile-choice for its opt-out program for mobile apps. Please be aware that, even if you are able to opt out of certain kinds of interest-based ads, you will continue to receive non-targeted ads. We are not responsible for the effectiveness of, or compliance with, external-parties’ opt-out options or programs or the accuracy of their statements regarding their programs. We may combine tracking technology information with other information we obtain about you, which may include data we obtain from external parties. We and external parties may collect personal information about your online activities over time and across different sites when you use the Websites. You may be able to adjust settings on your web browser to block or restrict the use of cookies. Please note that disabling certain cookies may affect your user experience on the Websites and some features may not function properly. Your web browser may have settings that allow you to transmit a “Do Not Track” signal when you visit various sites or use online services. Like many websites and online services, the Websites are not designed to respond to “Do Not Track” signals received from browsers. To learn more about “Do Not Track” signals, you may wish to visit http://www.allaboutdnt.com You may be able to opt out of certain tracking technologies, including from our vendors, as described above. We do not control these opt out processes and we recommend referring to the resources those parties provide to you for more information on their practices and opt out process. For example, for more information about how Google Analytics uses data collected through our websites, visit: http://policies.google.com/technologies/partner-sites . To opt out of Google Analytics, visit: http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout . For more information about how Microsoft collects or receives information to provide Microsoft Advertising, including through DoubleClick tracking technologies, you may refer to the Microsoft Privacy Statement: https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement Disclosing Your Information NYULH may disclose personal information we have obtained about you as described above with our affiliates, business partners, and vendors. For example, we may use service providers to help us operationally or to administer activities on our behalf, such as sending emails and performing analytics. In addition, we may also disclose your personal information obtained through the Websites (1) as permitted or required by federal and state laws and regulations; (2) in the event we sell or transfer all or a portion of our business assets (e.g., further to a merger, liquidation, reorganization, or any other business transaction, including negotiations of such transactions); (3) when we determine that disclosure is necessary or appropriate to comply with law or legal process or to protect legal rights, property, or safety; (4) to enforce our policies; or (5) at your direction or with your consent. Data Security NYULH has implemented reasonable physical, technical, and administrative procedures to safeguard and secure all information we collect online against loss, misuse, or alteration of the information under our control. Please note that while we always attempt to protect the security of your information, NYULH cannot guarantee the security of any information transmitted through the Websites. Changes and Questions We may modify this Privacy Statement in whole or in part at any time. Changes to the Privacy Statement are indicated by the “Last Updated” date at the top. If you have questions, please contact webteam@nyumc.org Conflicts of Interest Disclaimer General Compliance HIPAA Patient Privacy Hospital Compliance Non-Discrimination Policy Patient Communications Policy Professional Billing Compliance Research Compliance SendSafe Email Social Media NYU Langone Health is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers. Our trifold mission to care, teach, and discover is achieved daily through an integrated academic culture devoted to excellence in patient care, education, and research. Our Leadership, Campus Transformation, and Community Service Plan NYU Langone Health is a world-class integrated academic medical center and one of the largest health systems in the Northeast—stretching across six inpatient facilities and over 300 locations throughout the New York City region and in Florida. Guided by our purpose, to deliver the best outcomes in patient care, education, and science, our more than 51,000 staff members provide lifechanging care, innovative medical education, and groundbreaking advances in research. Our mission to care, to teach, to discover is achieved daily through a culture of exceptionalism. Our values of performance, respect, integrity, diversity, and excellence (PRIDE) influence the way we show up each and every day for our patients, our students, and our communities. A Reputation for Excellence By all accounts, NYU Langone is a premier healthcare system. Organizations like Vizient, Inc., The Leapfrog Group, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), and The Joint Commission have consistently named NYU Langone No. 1 in the United States for quality and safety . We are home to 13 top-ranked specialties in the nation, according to U.S. News & World Report . All of our hospitals have earned the Magnet designation for excellence in nursing and quality patient care from the American Nurses Credentialing Center, an honor achieved by only 9.7 percent of hospitals in the United States. Our Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center is designated a Comprehensive Cancer Center by the National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), its highest recognition of achievement. Rusk Rehabilitation is consistently ranked one of the top 10 rehabilitation programs in the country by Our History NYU Langone was founded as the Medical College of New York University in 1841 by Valentine Mott, MD, the premier surgeon of his day, and five other eminent physicians and scientists. NYU Langone’s first hospital, known as University Hospital, was established in 1948, a century after its Medical College. In 1963, a newly acquired site in midtown Manhattan became the home of University Hospital’s new 18-story building. Adopting a novel concept in healthcare, the 363-bed acute-care facility—now —partnered with outpatient practices to speed the translation of scientific discovery to the clinic and allow physicians to conduct academic and research activities while maintaining private practice. The first hospital to merge with our institution was the Hospital for Joint Diseases, now known as . The 225-bed hospital, a long-time affiliate, became NYU Langone’s dedicated orthopedic hospital in 2006. In 2018, a new Science Building, NYU Langone’s largest research facility, united teams of investigators previously housed in several facilities. That same year, the plan’s capstone project, the Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Pavilion , became the only inpatient facility in New York City with exclusively private rooms. Of its 374 patient rooms, 68 reside in Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone , the city’s first new children’s hospital in nearly 15 years. In 2016, we acquired Lutheran Medical Center, a 444-bed acute-care hospital in southwest Brooklyn. Within several years, , as it was renamed, benefitted so greatly from our health system’s infusion of resources and expertise that it now qualifies as one of the safest hospitals not only in New York City, but in the nation. The only five-star hospital in Brooklyn, as ranked by CMS, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn is the first and only hospital in Brooklyn to receive Magnet recognition for excellence in nursing and quality patient care. In 2019, NYU Langone extended its reach once again, this time to Nassau County on Long Island. Our acquisition of Winthrop University Hospital, a 591-bed acute-care hospital in Mineola, enlarged the NYU Langone system by 25 percent. Thanks to the same rigorous quality control measures implemented at our Brooklyn hospital, , as it was renamed, saw its average length of stay, a key measure of patient safety, decrease by nearly 20 percent in just two years. Groundbreaking Medicine In addition to providing our patients the best quality and safety outcomes, our clinicians and researchers have set new standards for the diagnosis and treatment of diseases and have made or contributed to breakthroughs in biomedical science. In 2015, a team of surgeons led by Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD, DDS , the Helen L. Kimmel Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery and chair of NYU Langone’s Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery , performed the most extensive face transplant to date, followed in 2020 by the world’s first successful face and double hand transplant and in 2023 by the world’s first whole-eye and partial-face transplant In 2021, a team of surgeons led by Robert Montgomery, MD, DPhil , director of the NYU Langone Transplant Institute , the H. Leon Pachter, MD, Professor of Surgery, and chair of the Department of Surgery , performed the first investigational transplant of a kidney grown in a genetically altered pig to a brain-dead person whose bodily functions were sustained by mechanical support. In separate investigational procedures performed in June and July 2022, surgeons led by Dr. Montgomery successfully transplanted hearts from genetically altered pigs into brain-dead patients, marking the latest advance toward addressing the nationwide organ shortage and developing a clinical protocol that would provide an alternative supply of organs for people with life-threatening heart disease. Transforming Medical Education has spearheaded innovations that have not only transformed the training of our own medical students, but also inspired educational reforms at other medical schools nationwide. In 2013, the school began offering an accelerated three-year MD degree for select medical students, an initiative designed to ease the financial burden of medical school and launch medical careers one year earlier than traditional students. The program made NYU Langone the first nationally ranked academic medical center in the United States to enable graduates to pursue a career in either primary care or the medical specialty of their choice in three years. Then in 2018—and through a groundswell of generosity from hundreds of alumni, NYU Langone trustees, and other scholarship supporters—the school once again made history. NYU Grossman School of Medicine became the first top-ranked medical school in the nation to provide Full-Tuition Scholarships to all new and current students, a bold strategy to reduce the staggering debt incurred by medical students due to the ever-rising cost of their education. The following year, NYU School of Medicine was renamed NYU Grossman School of Medicine in honor of the landmark educational achievements and visionary leadership of Robert I. Grossman, MD , which vaulted the school to national renown. Today, one in six medical school applicants nationwide set their sights on NYU Grossman School of Medicine. In 2019, NYU Langone expanded its medical student training when it launched , a joint venture between New York University and NYU Langone. The school, which also provides , is the only accelerated three-year MD program focused on primary care in New York State. Leaders in Research NYU Langone is setting the pace as the fastest-growing research enterprise within a top 20 medical school. NYU Grossman School of Medicine is the most productive research-intensive school of medicine, with active awards per researcher currently higher than any other top 20 medical school. Our team of 1,190 principal investigators has amassed a portfolio of NIH funding that has grown from $129 million to $663 million since 2007. In 2021, NYU Langone was selected by the NIH to be the Clinical Science Core of the Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery (RECOVER) Initiative and received a $450 million parent award. Since then, NYU Langone has successfully constructed the RECOVER Consortium, making multiple subawards to a network of lead investigators studying the long-term effects of COVID-19 at 33 institutions across the nation. These researchers coordinate data, monitor protocols, and guide communications with patients and clinicians. More About NYU Langone Our Leadership Our mission is achieved through the leadership of a team of executives, department chairs, deans, and trustees and overseers. Top Ranked for Quality & Patient Safety Learn about why NYU Langone is the top-ranked hospital for quality and patient safety. Nursing at NYU Langone Our nationally recognized nurses are committed to providing world-class care and improving patient outcomes. Campus Transformation Our campus transformation project is reshaping NYU Langone through construction, renovations, and expansions. Sustainability NYU Langone Health is committed to reducing our impact on the environment through a strategic sustainability program. Community Needs Assessment & Service Plan We aim to foster healthy behavior change and reduce risk factors for disease at the neighborhood level. Health Equity Impact Assessment These assessments determine the potential impacts of NYU Langone Health projects on accessibility and delivery of healthcare services. Our Finances We release our quarterly or financial reports, encompassing the full financial scope of the enterprise. Government & Community Affairs Learn about the ways we are creating healthier communities in the New York metropolitan area. Our Story in Action We strive for excellence in everything we do. See our story in action. Our Services Schedule a Virtual Urgent Care video visit for you or a child age 5 and older, and receive treatment for many non-emergency medical concerns. Virtual Urgent Care for Children Cost & Insurance Options Common Questions Same-Day Care from the Comfort of Your Home Virtual Urgent Care is a convenient way to have a video visit with an NYU Langone provider from your home, at work, or while on the go. Our service is available for adults as well as children ages 5 and older who are accompanied by a guardian. We treat many common conditions, and our providers are available from early morning to midnight, 365 days of the year. Accessing care is easy: Using your mobile device, you visit face-to-face with an NYU Langone provider who listens to your concerns and determines a diagnosis, treatment plan, and follow-up instructions. Our services are available to patients who are physically located in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Florida, and Nevada at the time of the visit. Quality Care from the NYU Langone Providers You Trust Appointments Around Your Schedule Our providers are available every day, from before your work or the school day starts to long into the evening. Expertise in Emergency Care Our board-certified NYU Langone emergency physicians are specially trained to diagnose and treat many medical conditions. Consolidated Medical Records Your visit becomes part of your NYU Langone Health MyChart account, allowing for easy follow-up care, referrals to specialists, and scheduling for additional testing. “Virtual Urgent Care allowed me to have a quick appointment in between meetings. It was very convenient, and I was able to fit it into my workday.” Read Our Patient Stories No. 1 for Quality Care in the United States For the third year in a row, Vizient, Inc., has recognized NYU Langone Health as the No. 1 comprehensive academic medical center in the country. Source: 2024 Vizient Quality and Accountability Ranking. See How We Elevate Patient Care Common Conditions We Treat We provide treatment for a variety of non-emergency conditions for adults and children ages 5 and older. Allergies Asthma Common Cold Cough COVID-19 Diarrhea Flu Pink Eye Rash Sore Throat Urinary Tract Infections Vomiting View More Common Conditions We Treat View All Conditions We Treat View Conditions We Don't Treat Virtual Urgent Care is available for children ages 5 and older. We treat many common conditions that occur during childhood, including pink eye, sore throat, mild fever, diarrhea, and vomiting. For a child under 12 years old, a parent or legal guardian must schedule the visit on behalf of the child. Patients ages 12 to 17 may schedule directly, or their parent or guardian may schedule for them. Adults require healthcare proxy access to their child’s NYU Langone Health MyChart account. How to Schedule an Appointment for a Child Your insurance plan may cover the cost of a Virtual Urgent Care visit for you or your child. If your insurance plan is not accepted or you do not want a claim submitted to your insurance carrier, the charge for a visit may be up to $126, plus any additional fees for other services provided. View Accepted Insurance Plans Have Questions About Virtual Urgent Care? Learn how to schedule an appointment, connect to your visit, and access follow-up care with our FAQ guide or by calling 929-455-6409 Read Our FAQs We thank you for making time to visit your loved ones at NYU Langone. To ensure a safe environment for our patients and visitors, we have updated our visitor policies for all of our locations. Please check for updates before each visit. We understand the important role that family members and visitors play in a patient’s healing process, and aim to balance the needs of patients with maintaining a safe environment for all. Our staff can also help patients and their family members communicate through phone calls, Facetime, Skype, and other remote methods as needed. Information for All Visitors Please visit your loved one only when you are feeling healthy and well. All visitors must wash or sanitize hands frequently, and must stay with the patient at all times unless directed otherwise by our staff. Wearing a mask is optional, except in certain areas where it may be mandated. All visitors must wear a mask in our emergency departments. Visitors under the age of 12 are not permitted at this time, with certain exceptions. They may visit a parent who is an obstetric patient or a patient who is in an imminent end-of-life situation. Young visitors also are allowed to accompany their parent on a pediatric outpatient visit. In all cases, visitors under 12 do not count toward the two-visitor maximum. Visitors under the age of 18 must be accompanied by an adult. If a support person becomes ill during their visit, they will be asked to leave and a different support person may be designated. Visitors are required to show identification and provide information including their name, contact information, dates of visits, and the name of the patient they are visiting. Patients with confirmed COVID-19 may be permitted visitors only when our staff determines it is safe. We may need to restrict visitors to these patients when it is not possible to sufficiently control the spread of infection. Visitors who do not comply with the guidelines will be asked to leave. Visitor Policies for Our Inpatient Locations At Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street , the following policies are currently in effect. Visitors must wear any personal protective equipment (PPE) issued to them by the clinical team and be diligent in performing hand hygiene. All adult patients are permitted two visitors from 7:00AM to 9:00PM, and one visitor from 9:00PM to 7:00AM. Exceptions are made by our clinical team only when a support person is medically necessary for a patient’s wellbeing, such as for patients who have cognitive impairment, intellectual disability, or developmental delay. Visitation requests are granted in accordance with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Service (CMS) guidelines. Pediatric patients are permitted up to six approved visitors, which may include parents, grandparents, guardians, family care partners, or other support people. Only two of these approved visitors may be at the bedside with the patient at the same time. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Labor and delivery patients are permitted two support people, including a doula if the patient has one, throughout the labor, delivery, and postpartum period. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Labor and delivery patients may also be visited by their minor children between 7:00AM and 9:00PM. In the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) at Tisch Hospital , the NICU at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn , and the NICU at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island , each infant is allowed up to six approved visitors, which may include parents, grandparents, guardians, family care partners, or other support people. Only two of these approved visitors may be at the bedside with the patient at the same time. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Visitor Policies for Surgeries and Same-Day Procedures For patients having surgery or a same-day procedure at our hospitals and ambulatory locations, the following visitor policies are in place. Adult patients may be accompanied by two support people during the intake process, and they may rejoin the patient briefly during the recovery process and again during the discharge process. Visitors may wait in the designated waiting area. Exceptions may be made by our clinical team when it is medically necessary for a patient’s wellbeing. Pediatric patients are allowed two support people, who may be present throughout intake, recovery, and discharge process. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Visitor Policies for Our Emergency Departments In our emergency departments, including Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services The Home Depot Emergency Department at NYU Langone Health—Cobble Hill Emergency Department at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Emergency Department at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island , the following policies are in effect. All visitors must wear a mask in our emergency departments. Adult patients may have one support person at the bedside, including a family member, caregiver, or another person of their choice. Exceptions are made by our clinical team only when it is medically necessary for a patient’s wellbeing. Pediatric patients may have two support people at the bedside, such as a parent, grandparent, family care partner, or another person designated by the child’s family. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Visitor Policies for Our Ambulatory and Outpatient Locations At our ambulatory and outpatient locations, the following visitor policies are in place. Adult patients may be accompanied by two people for the duration of their visit. Pediatric patients may be accompanied by two visitors. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Visitor Policies for our Perlmutter Cancer Center Locations At our Perlmutter Cancer Center locations, the following visitor policies are in place. During Your Visit We ask guests to keep their voices low during visits so as not to bother other patients. You should also be considerate of your loved one’s personal preferences—he or she may like short visits, for example, or ask to have a day without guests. Patients know best how much social interaction they need while recovering. If you plan to care for your loved one after he or she returns home, use your visits to observe our nurses and ask questions. This can help you feel more secure and confident after your loved one is released from the hospital. Be respectful of the nurses and doctors, as well as your loved one, who may want privacy when being seen by the medical team. Please be mindful that all NYU Langone campuses, buildings, and exterior spaces are tobacco-free, including electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) and all other smoking devices. Smoking or the use of smoking devices is not permitted anywhere at NYU Langone. Patients are permitted to have a single mylar balloon at their bedside. Latex balloons or multiple mylar balloon arrangements are not permitted. Flowers and live plants are permitted in select areas in accordance with our Infection Control policies. They are not permitted in: Intensive care units Oncology, hemodialysis, infusion, and transfusion units and treatment areas Solid organ and bone marrow transplant units and treatment areas Operating rooms, interventional procedure rooms, post-operative units, and post-procedure units Labor and Delivery for immunocompromised patients All gift deliveries (e.g. a single mylar balloon, flower, gift hampers, etc.) by messenger/vendor, must be picked up by the patient’s support person(s) in the lobby of the facility. Most of all, consider the needs of the patient. People who are hospitalized need to rest in a relaxed environment. Whatever you can do to encourage your loved one’s recovery may allow him or her to return home quicker. NYU Langone does not restrict, limit, or deny visitation privileges based on race, ethnicity, language, national origin, socioeconomic status, mental or physical ability, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression. NYU Langone is a weapon-free zone. A weapon is any item capable of causing injury or harm, and includes firearms, knives, and any item that is illegal to own or use under the law. Licensed gun carriers and others may not enter with a gun unless they are law enforcement on active duty. Prepare for Your Visit Information About Your Doctor’s Office Visit What to Bring for Your Hospital Stay Parking in Midtown Manhattan Advance Care Planning Request Medical Records Sharing & Requesting Access to NYU Langone Health MyChart Frequently Asked Questions About Collecting Patient Data Insurance, Billing & Financial Assistance We’re here to help you navigate through any questions you have about your bill from NYU Langone, which includes Family Health Centers at NYU Langone as well as associated outpatient locations. You may receive separate bills for: your hospital stay emergency services the hospital portion of an outpatient visit doctor’s services Please contact us by phone or in person using the methods listed below if you have any questions about insurance or billing. Learn more about your hospital bill , your emergency care bill , or your physician services bill Important Information About Your Hospital Bill It is important for you to know that the hospital only bills you for hospital services. You will get separate bills from doctors. The doctors who care for you at the hospital may work in a private practice or they may be employed by the medical center. Some of these doctors may not be in the same health plan networks as the hospital. Ask the doctor admitting you to the hospital or scheduling your outpatient care if they participate in your insurance plan’s network. If a doctor or hospital is not in your plan’s network, your insurance provider will require you to pay more. In-Network Insurance Coverage: Hospital Benefits NYU Langone participates in many health plan networks. Each health plan creates a network of doctors and hospitals who have agreed to be in that network. It’s called “participating” in the plan. View the list of insurance plans in which we participate Some health plans use smaller networks for certain services, so it is important to check whether we participate in the specific plan that covers you. Our list will tell you if we are in a health plan’s network. In-Network Insurance Coverage: Physician Benefits You can look online to see if your doctors work for NYU Langone and if your doctors are part of the same networks as the hospital. View a list of insurance plans that most of our providers accept, or search for an individual doctor , including anesthesiologists, pathologists, and radiologists, to see if they are employed by NYU Langone and view their list of accepted plans. You should check with the doctor admitting you to the hospital or scheduling your outpatient treatment to find out whether other doctors will be involved in your care. Your doctor can give you their name, practice name, mailing address, and telephone number. Your doctor will also be able to tell you if you are likely to need the services of any doctors employed by NYU Langone, in which case you can obtain information at the above link. To help you understand the full impact of your financial responsibility as a patient, you can coordinate with your insurance company after your provider has identified the procedures likely to be performed, or call us at 877-648-2964 New York State Hospital Facility Fee Notice New York State law requires that patients be notified of possible hospital facility fees. Your upcoming or current service may include a facility fee. Facility fees cover a portion of your care within the hospital, such as the cost of supplies, equipment, diagnostic tests, and/or services completed by technicians, nurses, and other members of your care team. If applicable, a facility fee will appear on a good faith estimate or bill. Out-of-Pocket Costs Out-of-pocket costs for healthcare services may vary significantly across health systems, even for common procedures. At NYU Langone, we are committed to providing you with this information up front so that you can make the best choice for yourself and your family. We provide the following tools to help you estimate your out-of-pocket costs. In compliance with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) regulations, hospitals are required to maintain a comprehensive list of standard charges for the items and services they provide. This includes payer-specific negotiated charges for the range of items and services delivered. You may view the list of NYU Langone’s standard charges in machine-readable files. It is important to remember that standard charges do not reflect or represent the actual out-of-pocket cost a patient pays for these services. Each patient and episode of care is unique, and the actual out-of-pocket cost a patient pays may vary depending on the clinical services provided; your specific insurance plan, if you have one; the location where you received services; and other factors. For this reason, the listing may not be a useful tool for accurately understanding what patients and insurers pay for care. The list of standard charges also does not explain how patient safety and quality are factored into the cost of services provided at NYU Langone. At NYU Langone, better care leads to better outcomes. Our commitment to delivering the highest quality of care lowers costs by reducing unnecessary hospital readmissions and complications. Another way for you to get information on potential out-of-pocket costs is by viewing NYU Langone’s list of shoppable services . NYU Langone provides a list of 300 shoppable services. A shoppable service is a service that a patient can schedule in advance. These services are routinely provided in nonurgent situations, allowing you to learn more about the costs for services before receiving them. Examples of common shoppable services include imaging and laboratory services, medical and surgical procedures, and outpatient doctor visits. Similar to the list of standard charges, the shoppable services list serves as a starting point. It is important to remember that the charges for the shoppable services do not reflect or represent the actual out-of-pocket cost a patient pays for these services. To obtain the most reliable out-of-pocket fee for a service at NYU Langone, it is important to speak with your insurance company. They will be able to assist you with information regarding deductibles, copayment, and coinsurance related to the services received and in accordance with your insurance policy. When you need emergency care or are unexpectedly treated by an out-of-network provider at an in-network hospital or ambulatory surgical center, you are protected from being charged more than your insurance plan’s copayments, coinsurance, or deductible. Learn more about your rights and protections against surprise medical bills If you do not have health insurance, please call us at 212-263-1481 to get information about an out-of-pocket cost estimate, or to learn more about our Financial Assistance Policy and your eligibility for subsidized health insurance through programs such as Medicaid. Paying Your Hospital Bill and the will send you a bill for inpatient and outpatient services, listing the charges for the care you received. A “daily care charge” on the inpatient bill covers the basic everyday work of the hospital. It includes 24-hour nursing care, food, housekeeping, and other support services. Following the terms of your insurance plan, insurance covers most of these costs and you pay the remainder. “Optional personal charges” on an inpatient bill are for any extra services received. You may have requested a meal for a family member or a private room. Health insurance does not usually cover these extra items. To make payment as simple and straightforward as possible, we ask every insured patient to pay the deductible, coinsurance, or copayment at the time of any non-emergency service. You may pay by cash, check, or major credit card. This time-of-service payment is based on our estimate of your bill, but it is only an estimate. After discharge, we will send a final bill to your insurance company. They will send you an explanation of benefits (EOB) showing what we charged and what they paid. We will send you a final bill showing the balance you owe and how to pay it. This should match the information on the EOB. If you are in active labor or require emergency services, our first priority is to take care of you. We won’t ask about payment until the doctors have told us your condition is stable. You will be asked to pay for any charges not covered by your insurance after you are discharged. Prenatal Care Assistance Program The Prenatal Care Assistance Program, also known as PCAP, is insurance for pregnant women available through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. PCAP provides coverage for prenatal care, childbirth, and postpartum care up to two months after your baby is born. PCAP coverage is available to any pregnant woman regardless of age or immigration status. An application is required. Our patient service advocate can help determine if you are eligible. To learn more, please call 718-630-7136 Financial Counselors and Financial Assistance for Hospital Bills If you do not have health insurance or your insurance only covers a portion of your hospital bill, you may be eligible for financial assistance. Please see the hospital’s charity care and financial assistance policy billing and collections guidelines frequently asked questions . To apply, please follow the instructions on the financial assistance application. You can also talk to a financial counselor by visiting or calling one of the locations below weekdays between 8:00AM and 5:00PM: Tisch Hospital and NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital financial assistance application : 560 First Avenue, Room SK, Manhattan, 866-486-9847 NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn financial assistance application : 150 55th Street, Suite LB 2940, Brooklyn, 718-630-6252 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island financial assistance application : 131 Mineola Boulevard, Suite 105, Mineola, 516-663-8373 If you are receiving services at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and you do not have health insurance or your insurance only covers a portion of your hospital bill, you may be eligible for financial assistance. Please contact the site where your appointment has been scheduled to discuss financial assistance options. Financial Assistance Summaries Arabic Bengali Chinese English Farsi Greek Haitian–Creole Italian Korean Polish Portuguese Russian Spanish Financial Assistance Applications Questions About Payment If you have questions about payment, please call 800-237-6977 Your Emergency Care Bill A bill from the Samuels Orthopedic Immediate Care Center , or the includes charges for the nursing services and supplies provided during your emergency care. Imaging tests, laboratory tests, and pharmacy services are individually listed on this bill. Some portion of these charges may be covered by your insurance company. The bill for the doctors who participated in your care will be sent separately. These services may or may not be covered by your insurance company. Please see below for more information on physician billing. For questions about your emergency care bill, please call Your Physician Services Bill Patients at NYU Langone receive separate bills for services provided by doctors, whether as part of your hospital stay, emergency care, or doctor’s office visit. You can check individual physician participation by searching for a doctor You may also receive a bill for ancillary doctor’s services, such as anesthesia, radiology testing, pathology, or other services. Though you may not meet these doctors face-to-face, they provide vital care. In addition, you may receive a separate bill from a doctor who is affiliated with NYU Langone, but has a private practice. View this sample doctor bill to learn more about the information on your bill. Our Faculty Group Practice Financial Assistance Program provides discounts for low-income individuals who do not have health insurance or who have exhausted their health insurance benefits and meet certain income guidelines for eligible services. View the application in English or in To speak with a customer service representative about your doctor’s office bill, please call the number on your statement or call At NYU Langone, we know that pregnancy can be an exciting but sometimes overwhelming time in your life. There is much to learn and many decisions to make. That’s why we are firmly committed to providing soon-to-be parents with the education and support they need to have healthy, happy pregnancies and the best possible birth experiences. Our certified birth educators teach you how to advocate for yourself throughout your pregnancy, what to expect during childbirth, how to care for a newborn, and ways to ensure your baby’s safety. Our parent classes and support groups and our eClasses are offered through NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation. Delivering Your Baby at NYU Langone To learn more about why you should choose NYU Langone for your delivery, we invite you to view our recorded Ready, Set, Baby! hospital information session . This presentation introduces you to our facilities and explains the NYU Langone birth experience. A Commitment to Breastfeeding and Infant Safety are designated Baby-Friendly Hospitals, a distinction awarded by Baby-Friendly USA in acknowledgment of our commitment to breastfeeding support and education. Studies have shown that breastfeeding can reduce infant hospitalizations and pediatrician visits. Through our breastfeeding classes and support groups , our lactation consultants and lactation counselors provide you with the support you need to get off to a good breastfeeding start, continue breastfeeding after returning to work, and overcome any nursing challenges you face along the way. NYU Langone receives consistent recognition for safety and quality. We are certified by The Joint Commission for excellence in advanced perinatal care, which is the time before, during, and after childbirth. In addition, all of NYU Langone’s inpatient facilities are Magnet® certified, which is the gold standard for nursing excellence. We also earn the highest ratings from the Leapfrog Hospital Safety grade. As part of our commitment to infant safety, we follow and educate new and expecting parents about infant safe sleep guidelines issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). For more information about our programs, please email NYUBaby@NYULangone.org Collapse submenu Parent Education Classes & Support Groups Parent Education eClasses Preparing for Childbirth Information Session Resources for Before & After Your Baby Arrives Our Parent Education Program Staff While you or a loved one receive care at NYU Langone, our Guest Services team is available to make your visit as comfortable and convenient as possible. Whether you need assistance navigating the surrounding neighborhoods or our facilities, or need to find an NYU Langone doctor’s office, we can help. The Guest Services team can assist you with the following: information about services available at NYU Langone directions and assistance finding your way throughout NYU Langone car service reservations and help with other transportation needs, such as valet parking and parking garage options, as well as mass transit information and directions hotel and restaurant reservations notary public services beautician services for inpatients sightseeing and special event information including museums, theaters, art, and music in New York City Guest Services can be reached at the following locations: At NYU Langone’s , please call 212-263-2092 or email hospitality@nyumc.org . At Tisch Hospital, you can also visit us at the information desk located in the lobby. 212-598-6336 , please visit our information desk located on the second floor main lobby or contact us at 718-630-7000 If you are traveling to the United States from abroad in search of medical care, the experts from NYU Langone’s International Patient Services can help coordinate your journey. When you choose NYU Langone for your healthcare needs, we develop a personalized medical plan for you. This includes arranging any medical services you need. When necessary, we collect your medical records so they can be reviewed by our world-class doctors. The International Patient Services team works quickly to provide you with a reliable estimate for the cost of your care . We then schedule your doctor appointments, lab testing, and procedures, so your schedule is set prior to your arrival. Our goal is to make the process as easy as possible so you can focus on your treatment and recovery. Learn more about our support services and how to Choosing NYU Langone NYU Langone is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers and one of the top-ranked hospitals in the country on ’s “Best Hospitals.” Learn more about our nationally ranked programs, quality and safety, and groundbreaking research If you require care in the hospital, your treatment may take place at one of our several inpatient locations: , or . Children’s healthcare services are provided through Many patients come to us from around the world for our services in cardiology and heart surgery diabetes and endocrinology orthopedics , neurology and neurosurgery epilepsy rehabilitation services cosmetic and reconstructive surgery services We are also home to a large network of outpatient locations. We are unique in providing same-day executive check-ups and healthcare focused on the individual needs of men and women at Joan H. Tisch Center for Women’s Health Preston Robert Tisch Center for Men’s Health NYU Langone at Trinity International Patient Services Team Our International Patient Services program is led by the following experts in medical care and care coordination: Dr. William Macaulay , medical director (Languages: English, Spanish) Yasmin Hani, senior director of the international, language, and volunteer services departments (Languages: English, Arabic) Nadine Hamido, Manager (Languages: English, Arabic) News for Our International Patients As you research which medical center to choose as your medical home away from home, we invite you to learn more about our latest news and updates When you contact International Patient Services, please include your name, country of origin, preferred contact method, and preferred language. We will get back to you within 24 hours. Reach out to us by phone at 1-212-263-3588 , by email at InternationalServices@NYULangone.org , or by fax at 1-646-501-5296 Preparing for Your Visit Financial Information At NYU Langone Health, we provide a welcoming environment for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ+). Our providers and staff strive to offer equitable care to all, while also acknowledging and respecting the specific needs of the LGBTQ+ community and their loved ones. NYU Langone has been recognized by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation Healthcare Equality Index (HEI) Report , a certification that acknowledges medical facilities where staff provide equal healthcare access to LGBTQ+ Americans. The HEI certification, which NYU Langone has received 10 years in a row and recognizes all of our locations, is obtained through an annual survey that evaluates a healthcare provider’s nondiscrimination policies and staff training, patient services and support, employee benefits and policies, and patient and community engagement. On these criteria, NYU Langone earned a perfect score of 100. We follow the best practices in LGBTQ+ healthcare and follow standards of care provided by GLMA: Health Professionals Advancing LGBTQ Equality and WPATH: World Professional Association for Transgender Health. Our Commitment to the LGBTQ+ Community We provide healthcare, treatment, and services to all regardless of a person’s sexual orientation, assigned sex at birth, or gender identity or expression. This policy is part of the NYU Langone Patients’ Bill of Rights , which also prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, disability, source of payment, or age. If you are a patient in the hospital, our guest policy ensures that your partner and family may visit you. We also abide by New York City’s LGBTQ Health Care Bill of Rights , which affirms your right to privacy and confidentiality. We support your right to choose who can make medical decisions for you in case you are unable to do so for yourself, and can assist with advance directives and establishing a healthcare proxy At NYU Langone, we abide by the NYC Commission on Human Rights and respect your right to be addressed by your chosen name and pronouns. Your Medical and Surgical Care We provide primary and specialized care for the LGBTQ+ community, including gender-affirming surgical care . Please tell your healthcare provider the name and pronoun you use. You can also add this information to your NYU Langone Health MyChart account We encourage you to build a relationship with your healthcare professional and to schedule annual physicals. Your provider can advise you about what preventive screenings and medical tests are recommended for you. Primary care services are available at many of our In addition to well visits, services provided by our doctors include the following: preventive healthcare, including immunizations and screening for breast cancer cervical cancer rectal cancer mental health screenings and treatment treatment for hepatitis and liver disease HIV testing and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) treatment to protect against HIV As a leader in gender-affirming surgery, our plastic and reconstructive surgeons, urologists, and gynecologists perform more than 550 surgeries per year. Our transgender health team also provides fertility preservation, hormone therapy, and rehabilitation care. Gender and Sexuality Service Transgender Youth Health Program , both part of , our pediatric experts offer sensitive care and support for transgender, gender-nonconforming, and gender-diverse children and their families. The NYU Langone Fertility Center NYU Langone Reproductive Specialists of New York provide a full range of care, including family planning services, reproductive endocrinology, donor eggs, donor sperm, and gestational carriers to help members of the LGBTQ+ community start a family. LGBTQ+ Advisory Council Our LGBTQ+ Advisory Council includes advocates from across the NYU Langone community, including physicians, nurses, administrators, educators, and staff. Council members are dedicated to creating an environment of inclusion, acceptance, equality, and healing for patients, employees, and students who identify as LGBTQ+ as well as their friends and families. Council members are professionals who patients and staff can turn to for support. They advocate for inclusive policies, create opportunities to build community, and lead educational efforts around LGBTQ+ health. For more information on our LGBTQ+ Advisory Council, please contact #outtoheal@nyulangone.org At NYU Langone, Kevin Moore, our assistant director for LGBTQ+ clinical services, serves as patient liaison and is dedicated to meeting the specific needs of this community. For more information, please email lgbtqpatientliaison@nyulangone.org NYU Langone provides interpretation and translation services for patients and their family members who prefer to communicate in a language other than English. Resources are also provided to people with disabilities to help you communicate with your care team. Language Services We offer interpretation and translation assistance, both orally and in writing. Certified Medical Interpreters For families and patients who prefer to communicate in a language other than English, we provide professional medical interpreters free of charge. Interpreters can help you and your family during all phases of your care, whether you are visiting us for testing or treatment or have been admitted to the hospital. We provide face-to-face interpreters as well as remote video and telephone interpreting services. Translation of Medical Documents Vital documents, including advance directives and informed consent forms, are available in the most frequently spoken languages, which include Spanish, Russian, Chinese, and Arabic. These and other written materials, including educational information, are available and can be translated to your preferred language upon request to your healthcare team. In addition, if you have important documents such as medical records that are written in another language, we can facilitate having them translated into English for you. Please speak with a member of your healthcare team for more information about translation services. Disability Services We offer support to patients who have vision or hearing loss Services for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing If you communicate using sign language or have a family member who does, we can provide a certified interpreter free of charge. If you are admitted after-hours or on the weekend, we offer remote interpreting that connects you via video to an interpreter until a face-to-face interpreter can be assigned. Other aids and services are available as well, including assistive listening devices such as amplifiers, UbiDuo face-to-face communicator, and white boards. Services for the Blind and Visually Impaired For people who are blind or visually impaired, vital documents are available in Braille and in large print. Please speak with a member of your healthcare team for more information about document availability. For more information or to access language and disability services at NYU Langone’s , and NYU Langone outpatient locations, please call 212-263-3762 language.services@nyulangone.org To access these services at 212-598-6164 lohlanguageservices@nyulangone.org For language and disability services at 718-630-6537 lblanguage.services@nyulangone.org 516-663-1251 patricia.muniz@nyulangone.org Our patient portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart , allows you to easily access information about your medical history and manage your care online and through the . With proper consent, patients age 12 and older can grant access to their MyChart account to a trusted family member or caregiver. For children age 11 and younger, parents and guardians may request proxy access to their child’s health record. Follow these instructions to request proxy access or share access to a family member’s NYU Langone Health MyChart account. For more information about MyChart and shared access, please see our Requesting Proxy MyChart Access for Children Age 11 and Younger To request proxy access to your child’s NYU Langone Health MyChart health record, you must first have your own account. If you are a patient at NYU Langone and don’t yet have an account, you can create your account online . If you are not a patient at NYU Langone, please call our MyChart Help Desk at 866-262-6458 so that we may create an account for you. After logging into your NYU Langone Health MyChart account, follow these steps to request access to your child’s health record: From the Menu, scroll to Sharing and select “Share My Record.” Select “Friends and Family Access.” Under Records I Can See, select “Request Access to My Child’s Account (Under Age 12).” Enter your child’s information and review the agreement language. Check the box to accept the agreement, and then tap “Submit Request.” Please note that processing time for reviewing and approving proxy access may vary. You will receive a notification to your NYU Langone Health MyChart account when access to your child’s health record has been reviewed. Sharing MyChart Access for People Age 12 and Older People age 12 and older can create their own NYU Langone Health MyChart account and can choose to share access to their account with a parent, guardian, or other trusted caregiver or friend. Shared access to the accounts of people age 12 to 17 expires on their 18th birthday, in accordance with New York State law. The person can choose to share access again at that time. To share access, you must first create your NYU Langone Health MyChart account . The person with whom you are sharing access must also have an NYU Langone MyChart account in order to accept your invitation. If they are a patient at NYU Langone, they can create their account online. If they are not a patient at NYU Langone, they must call our MyChart Help Desk at so that we may create an account for them. After logging into your NYU Langone Health MyChart account, follow these steps to share access: Under Who Can See My Record, select “Share MyChart Access with Family/Friend.” Enter the information for the person with whom you would like to share access. Review the agreement language, and check the box to agree to the terms and conditions. Select “Send Invite.” The person receives an invitation sent to the email account you provided for them, and must then complete the steps listed below. Accepting an Invitation for Shared Access To accept an invitation for shared access to someone’s NYU Langone Health MyChart account, you must complete the following steps: Log into your NYU Langone Health MyChart account using the link in the email you received. Enter the patient’s date of birth and choose “Accept Invitation,” or choose “Decline Invitation” if you do not wish to accept. For technical assistance with NYU Langone Health MyChart, please call our MyChart Help Desk at Better health starts with a better health system. At NYU Langone Health, we believe that better health starts with a better health system. A better health system goes beyond just treating a diagnosis or disease—it understands and addresses the unique needs of each patient. Achieving this requires an integrated approach, where we draw on the full expertise of our clinical care, medical education, and research teams to deliver the best patient outcomes. To be a truly exceptional health system, there can be no small jobs, no shortcuts, and no overlooked details. Every action matters. Our drive to be a better health system is illustrated by how we select and support our care teams, how we train future leaders in medicine, and how we relentlessly pursue discoveries that transform lives. It’s reflected in every aspect of our system—from our warm and welcoming facilities to the compassion and professionalism of every staff member to our exceptional hospital food. This personalized human experience, coupled with a single electronic health record and mobile app, gives patients and providers access to full medical histories, creating one standard of high-quality care across our more than 320 locations. We deliver excellence where it matters most. NYU Langone has achieved the lowest mortality rates, hospital-acquired infection rates, and length of stay in the nation, and the lowest readmission rates in New York. We’ve been named number one for quality care in the United States for the last three years in a row. Our innovative medical education has put us in a class of our own, with two tuition-free medical schools and an accelerated three-year MD program, and we are the fastest-growing research enterprise among the nation’s top 20 academic health systems. By remaining laser focused on advancing all facets of our mission—to care, to teach, to discover—we are achieving better outcomes for our patients and lifting up the communities we serve. We don’t just aspire to be a better health system—we’ve built one. Discover what makes NYU Langone the better health system—because patients deserve nothing less. What Makes Us the Better Health System We monitor 800+ quality and safety metrics We maintain the lowest mortality rates in the nation We have the lowest hospital readmission rates in New York We’ve achieved the lowest hospital-associated complication rates in the country We treat stroke faster than any other hospital in New York The first top-ranked med school with full-tuition scholarships Every patient has one electronic record, streamlining care system-wide We discovered gender inequity in diagnosing heart attack. And fixed it. We are national leaders in organ transplant Our surgery patients go home sooner than those at any other health system Our hospitals rank among the top 10% for nursing excellence Same-day urgent care via video visit We bring high-quality care to our communities We pioneered the first three-year medical degree program among top academic medical schools Our vaccine research tackles complex conditions Faster and more accurate diagnosis through digital pathology Sala Institute delivers family-centered pediatric care 300+ locations and 4,000 doctors—always nearby Our clinical trials translate findings into new, more effective treatments for patients As an NYU Langone patient, you can request, download, and access your medical record right to your smart phone or computer, through , our secure patient portal. Parents and caregivers can request and access medical records for a child or a family member with the proper consent, by establishing MyChart proxy access . Patients and healthcare providers are not charged to obtain copies of medical records. There are fees for attorney requests. You can also request medical records by completing our records release form and submitting it by email, mail, or fax. Request Medical Records Quickly and Efficiently Through NYU Langone Health MyChart The easiest and fastest way for NYU Langone patients to access and request their medical record is to use their MyChart account is by following these simple steps: Log in to MyChart. Select “Menu” button. Select “Request/Share Records.” Select “Request Medical Record.” Enter the date range for the medical records you need, or you can request all dates. Select “Full visit details.” Select “Agree to release information.” Select “Send request.” Once submitted, you will be notified as soon as your records are ready. Records requested through MyChart are usually available to view immediately. You can download and share these records with a family member, healthcare provider, or anyone else you choose. You can also download your radiology images through your NYU Langone MyChart account. If you are a patient at NYU Langone and do not yet have a MyChart account, you can Parents and guardians can also request and access their child’s medical record in MyChart through proxy or shared access. Patients ages 12 and older can grant access to their MyChart account to a family member or caregiver. For children ages 11 and younger, parents and guardians may request proxy access to their child’s health record in MyChart. Request Medical Records by Completing and Submitting a Form Requesting your medical record through MyChart, as described in the previous section, is the fastest way to obtain your documents. However, if you prefer not to use MyChart, you can request your medical records from your NYU Langone visits by completing the Authorization for Use and Disclosure of Protected Health Information (PHI) form To submit the form via traditional mail, fax, or email, please download a static version of the form . You must sign the form before submitting it, and we can only process forms from NYU Langone patients. With this method, it may take several days for you to receive your records. The Authorization for Use and Disclosure of PHI form is also available in the following languages: Albanian French Hindi Requests for copies of your medical records to be sent directly to a healthcare provider for an upcoming appointment are expedited, and we make every effort to have them available at the time of your visit. To Request Hospital Records To request hospital records, please send the completed form, along with a copy of your photo identification, to the following address: NYU Langone Health, Health Information Management One Park Avenue, 3rd Floor New York, NY 10016 You can also email the completed form to HIS@NYULangone.org or fax it to 929-455-9833 To Request Records from Other Locations If you are seeking records from another NYU Langone Health location, please refer to the links below for contact information and submit your request directly to that doctor or location. NYU Langone doctors NYU Langone locations Request Medical Records for a Deceased Patient A family member or representative can also request medical records for a deceased patient. To request records for a deceased patient, you can complete the Authorization for Use and Disclosure of PHI form and a letter of testamentary from the courts designating the administrator or executor. Alternatively, you can also complete an authorization form, submit an original copy of the patient’s death certificate, and the signed or notarized Affidavit of Distributee Status form Another option is to complete an authorization form, letters of testamentary or the affidavit form, an original copy of the death certificate, and a power of attorney form signed by the distributee explicitly authorizing the requester to request medical records. You can submit all forms to the street address, email, or fax number listed on the Authorization for Use and Disclosure of PHI form. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) privacy rule protects the individually identifiable health information of a decedent for 50 years following the date of death of the patient. Correct or Amend Your Medical Record If you believe that the information in your medical record is incorrect, please complete and return the Request for Amendment form . Your healthcare provider reviews this form and responds to the request. Find more information about doctors’ office visits at many of our NYU Langone locations. What information do I need to provide when scheduling an appointment? patient’s name patient’s date of birth patient’s address brief description of the reason for the appointment home and alternate phone numbers patient’s health insurance information What should I bring with me to my appointment? You should bring copies of all pertinent medical records such as doctors’ notes and laboratory and imaging results, including actual films. This information helps your doctor to understand your medical history, make a diagnosis, and suggest treatment options. You should also bring your insurance card, as well as a referral and precertification information, if applicable. If you have chosen to complete the in advance, please remember to bring them to your appointment. How early should I arrive to my appointment? When you schedule your visit, our appointment coordinators will tell you when you should arrive and how you can prepare. In general, please plan on arriving 15 minutes prior to your scheduled appointment time. Will someone call me to remind me about my scheduled appointment? Many of our practices use TeleVox, an electronic appointment reminder system. You will receive an appointment reminder call two days in advance. I am new to NYU Langone. Will I need to complete any forms? Yes, you will be asked to review and complete various forms when you arrive at the practice such as: Faculty Group Practice Patient Demographic Form NYU Langone Medical Center Electronic Health Information System Consent Form Faculty Group Practice Financial Policies Patient Responsibility Form Notice of Privacy Practices Acknowledgment Many of these forms can be reviewed and completed prior to your appointment by visiting our What insurance plans do you accept? Doctors at NYU Langone participate in most major insurance plans. Our appointment coordinators can review insurance information with you when scheduling your appointment. What is the policy if you miss your appointment? If you are unable to keep your appointment, please call your doctor’s office as soon as possible. If you miss your appointment and do not call to cancel, additional fees may apply. Why did I receive a bill for a doctor that I did not see? You may receive services at NYU Langone such as anesthesia, radiology testing, pathology, or other services. These doctors provide vital services and are involved in your care—even though you may not see them face-to-face—so there may be additional charges for their services. Who can I call if I have a billing question? For billing-related questions, please call What forms of payments do you accept? For your convenience, our practices accept cash, personal checks, money orders, and credit cards including Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express. We do not accept traveler’s checks. We will charge your credit card only for the amount you authorize. Payment plans also may be arranged through our onsite billing coordinator. Can I access my medical information online? Yes, all of our practices use the patient portal . You can access it using a desktop or laptop computer, or download the on your Apple ® or Android™ device. By logging into the NYU Langone Health app with your MyChart account, you can: schedule or change appointments, including Virtual Urgent Care visits schedule and reschedule most imaging exams , as well as view preparation instructions and imaging exam results participate in a video visit with certain types of doctors, including some of our psychiatrists and psychologists , surgeons, and weight management experts view your test and lab results access your medical records, medications, immunizations, and more request prescription refills send secure messages to your doctor’s office access your billing statements and make payments How can I get a copy of my test results and medical records? To receive a copy of your test results and medical records, please call your doctor’s office. You will need to sign a consent form to release this information if your records are being sent to another office or hospital. You can also login to your account to view recent test results. What do I do if I run out of my medications? Prescription refill requests can be submitted via , or you can call your doctor’s office to request a refill. Whether you’re with us for an emergency or a planned visit such as surgery, helping you keep your personal belongings secure is our priority. If possible, we recommend that you leave your valuables at home or ask a family member or friend to take them home for you. Below are recommendations for what to bring for your stay at NYU Langone’s , including information for maternity patients . You can also learn what to bring for your stay For children and families, information is available on what to bring for your child’s stay What to Bring to the Hospital When packing your bag, only bring the necessities: government-issued photo ID insurance card a method of payment to satisfy any deductible or copayment, as well as other fees incurred such as phone service in your room prescription plan benefit card, if you have one list of your current medications and their dosages a copy of your advance directive if you have one eyeglasses, dentures, and hearing aids For Patients at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital In addition to the above list, the nursing staff at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital recommends you bring the following: loose-fitting, elastic-waist clothing to wear home sneakers that are easy to slip on and off in case you experience any swelling after surgery For Maternity Patients For women coming to Tisch Hospital to give birth, we suggest that you travel lightly. Much of what you need—such as a personal massager, feminine products, baby products, prescription medications, and over-the-counter medications—is provided by your care team. Ideally, everything would fit in a standard-size carry-on luggage bag. Additional information is available for women giving birth at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Items we recommend you have with you for delivery include: your NYU Langone birth preferences form lip balm to ease lip dryness during delivery comfort items such as music (docking stations are available for iPhones and similar devices) During your hospital stay, you might want to have: your own pillow toiletries including toothbrush, toothpaste, soap, shampoo, and body lotion (if you do not bring these items, they are provided for you) comfortable shoes that are easy to put on, as your feet might swell during and after labor nursing bras and a nursing pillow, if you plan to breastfeed If your partner is staying at the hospital with you, he or she should bring comfortable footwear, sleepwear, fresh socks, a change of clothing, and toiletries. As you prepare for your newborn’s hospital stay , keep in mind that we provide everything your baby needs during his or her first days, including clothing, blankets, diapers, and formula, if needed. All you need for your baby is a going-home outfit and either a car seat if you are leaving by car or an infant carrier, such as a stroller. What to Leave at Home The hospital gives you many of the items you need during your stay, so there are certain items that we recommend you leave at home. They include the following: medications, which are provided by the hospital pharmacy during your stay CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) machines for sleep apnea , but bring your masks as we can adapt them to fit our machines large electronic devices such as laptops, tablets, and portable video players large amounts of cash and jewelry, including wedding rings nicotine replacement products NYU Langone campuses, buildings, and exterior spaces are tobacco-free, including electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) and all other smoking devices. Smoking or the use of smoking devices is not permitted anywhere at NYU Langone, including your room. Walkers and Canes Patients at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital are encouraged to bring crutches, canes, walkers, and braces. At all of our other inpatient facilities, we recommend you leave these assistive devices at home. Keeping Your Belongings Secure While at NYU Langone, you are provided with a container labeled with your name to store your dentures, if needed. We encourage you to keep eyeglasses and hearing aids in a case with your name on it as well. Let your nurse or patient care technician know if you need help storing and securing your personal belongings. Because you may need to leave your room for tests or treatments, please make sure your property is always secure. If you are getting ready to move to a new room, be sure that you have all of your valuables, clothing, and any other items you brought with you. Ask a nurse if you have all of the property that was stored for you. If no one can take your property home, ask your nurse if your room has a personal safe. If not, ask your nurse to have your valuables stored in the hospital safe. You, or a person whom you appoint in writing, must claim your property within 60 days after discharge. For additional information on how to secure your belongings during your stay, please contact the appropriate location: At Tisch Hospital, Kimmel Pavilion, and Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street, please call the cashier at 212-263-5098 or security at 212-263-5038 At NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, please call the security office at 212-598-6202 At NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, please call the cashier at 718-630-7142 We’re here to provide emotional and practical support for you and your family, at every point on your journey to better health. Information About Your Child’s Doctor’s Visit What to Bring for Your Child’s Hospital Stay Explore Our Specialized Services for Adults Adult Recreation & Creative Arts Therapies Integrative Health Services Social Work & Care Management Services Spiritual, Religious & Chaplaincy Services Palliative Care and Supportive Care Tobacco Cessation Program Explore Our Specialized Services for Children Creative Arts Therapies Integrative Medicine Services Nutrition Pain Management Emotional Support Palliative Care Family Partnership Programs At NYU Langone, we understand that healthcare is personal. We’re here to address your individual needs and the needs of your family in every way we can. For International Patients Speak with Patient Relations Our staff in patient relations is available to assist you with questions, concerns, or grievances regarding your care. Learn About Child- and Family-Centered Care Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care provides services that enhance the health and wellbeing of children and families at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Ask a Patient Education Librarian Want to learn more about a diagnosis, treatment, or procedure? Our patient education librarians can help. At NYU Langone Health, we strive to provide excellent digital access to all. We are committed to supporting a digital environment that provides individuals with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in our programs and services as those without disabilities. This includes our websites: Learn more about digital accessibility at NYU Assistance with Accessing the Website If you need assistance accessing NYU Langone’s websites or any of our services, please call our toll-free number: . Our operators are available to help you get more information, 24 hours a day, 7 days per week. Website Accessibility Policy NYU Langone’s commitment to digital accessibility is grounded not only in principles of equity and inclusion, but also with the knowledge that accessible digital content generally enhances usability for everyone. We make every effort to ensure that content and aspects of our websites are accessible, unless doing so would represent and undue burden or fundamental alteration. In these cases, we have provided a phone number to ensure that all users can access our services. Any additions or changes to should not cause the websites to fall out of substantial conformance with applicable law. Our websites do not include sites that are independent of NYU Langone, including sites that are linked from our websites, or websites that do not provide NYU Langone programs, services, or activities. Physicians often spend up to a decade in training after earning their medical degree, a timeline that only gets longer as medicine grows increasingly complex and collaborative. To address these challenges, we pioneered the first three-year medical degree program among top academic medical schools in 2013. The goal was simple yet bold: reduce the burden of educational debt while giving students a head start on their apprenticeships as residents. Our innovative curriculum prioritizes early clinical immersion and mentorship, equipping students with the skills and guidance needed to thrive in their chosen fields, all while maintaining the highest standards of medical education. In fact, the largest study of its kind confirmed that our three-year students achieve the same milestones and meet the same rigorous requirements as their peers in traditional four-year programs. The ultimate validation, however, is the clinic: our graduates consistently excel in prestigious residency programs and competitive fellowships, making a significant impact in their fields. Our Three-Year MD Graduates Are More Than Ready for Residency How Do We Train Tomorrow’s Doctors? It’s Personal Three-Year MD Directed Pathway at NYU Grossman School of Medicine MD Curriculum at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Weight Management Program Find a Doctor & Schedule Our main locations are in Manhattan and Brooklyn and on Long Island. View All Locations (3) View All Contact Info Surgical Weight Loss Expand submenu Register for a Seminar Surgery Options Risks & Benefits Revisional Surgery Surgery for Adolescents After Surgery Payment & Insurance Coverage Support Groups Nonsurgical Medical Weight Loss NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program is one of the most highly regarded of its kind. Our experts, who are among the most experienced in the field, believe that by offering medical and surgical weight loss options—including gastric sleeve, gastric bypass, single anastomosis duodeno-ileal bypass with sleeve gastrectomy (SADI-S), one-anastomosis gastric bypass (OABG), and laparoscopic band, commonly known as Lap-Band—we can best meet the needs of our patients. We are accredited by the Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program (MBSAQIP) as a comprehensive center providing high-quality, patient-centered care for adolescents and adults. The advantages of losing weight extend far beyond the simply cosmetic. It can be lifesaving as well. Obesity is associated with a variety of health problems, including high blood pressure type 2 diabetes high cholesterol levels , breathing problems, gastroesophageal reflux disease , degenerative arthritis, skin infections, infertility in women , and certain forms of cancer. Our Bariatric Surgery Expertise Our surgeons’ expertise in performing weight loss surgery makes them among the best in the world. They have extensive training in minimally invasive laparoscopic and robotic bariatric surgery techniques. These approaches allow for smaller incisions, less discomfort, and a quicker recovery than conventional open surgery. Our surgeons are supported by a team of anesthesiologists, operating room staff, and nurses who are specially trained in caring for people who are living with obesity. Request a Video Doctor’s Visit Both new and existing patients can request a video doctor visit. Request a Video Doctor Visit The benefits and risks of bariatric surgery varies considerably, depending on your personal health and medical history, the type of procedure performed, and the experience of both the surgeon and the hospital. No matter which type of surgery you choose, it is vital to have it performed by a highly experienced team, such as the one at NYU Langone. Simply put, the more experience, the better the outcome. Weight loss surgery is performed at You can learn more about our weight loss surgery options during a free information session through one of our main program locations: Weight Management Program—Manhattan Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Our Medical Weight Loss Expertise Because surgery is not the right answer for everyone, we offer a wide range of medical weight loss options . Nutritional education, lifestyle guidance, exercise plans, behavioral–mindful eating techniques, and trigger analysis—discovering which circumstances trigger the desire to eat—are tools that help many people reach their weight loss goals. Our Locations (3) Phone 212-263-3166 More About This Location For Our Patients Expand description Review our forms for new and existing NYU Langone patients. View Patient Forms Get information to help you prepare and learn what to expect. View Information About Your Doctor’s Office Visit Wi-Fi Free Wi-Fi is available to patients and visitors. BMI Calculator Calculate your body mass index using this tool from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Calculate Your Body Mass Index Related News New Director of Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery Named Endometriosis: Six Symptoms You Should Never Ignore NYU Langone Launches Women’s Health Hub in Midtown Manhattan Hub for Women’s Healthcare Comes to East 53rd Street Breaking the Silence About Endometriosis How to Support a Loved One with Endometriosis Endometriosis: What You Need to Know Five Things You Should Know About Endometriosis Another way we show up for patients is through our commitment to scientific discovery. In the lab, our scientists are solving some of the greatest riddles in human medicine. But we don't stop there. We quickly take those insights into the clinic, carefully designing the best clinical trials to improve medicine for all. With $1.1 billion in active awards from the National Institutes of Health, NYU Langone Health is among the highest-funded health systems for research in the U.S. What’s more, NYU Grossman School of Medicine ranks as the fastest-growing research enterprise among the nation’s top 20 medical schools. Every year, we enroll nearly 20,000 patients in our clinical studies. So whether you’re seeking care for heart disease or cancer, know that we are continually striving for safer and more effective treatments. Clinical Trials Cancer Clinical Trials Through basic science and clinical research, our Vaccine Center develops novel vaccines and vaccine delivery methods to prevent and treat complex conditions among our patients and people around the globe. Our collaborative efforts contributed to the development of vaccines for COVID-19, influenza, and mpox. We continue to push the boundaries of science, bringing new discoveries to the bedside and investigating opportunities to apply our vaccine-research expertise to nonviral conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease and various cancers. It’s all part of our mission to drive research that protects and restores human health. At NYU Langone Health we are committed to investing in the communities we serve by teaming up with local organizations to provide school supplies, job training, and healthcare that addresses the unique needs of everyone from infants to young adults. It’s been more than 50 years since we opened the first location of the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and the system continues to provide healthcare in underserved communities throughout Brooklyn and beyond. And it does so regardless of people’s insurance or ability to pay—with the same quality NYU Langone is known for. In one unified location, people can address essential health needs, whether it’s dental care, primary and specialty care, or rehabilitation or mental health services. The safety and quality of the care you receive matter. It’s why we empower each of our nurses to be your advocate and a collaborative partner with members of your care team. Every hospital in our integrated system has earned the Magnet designation for excellence in nursing and quality patient care from the American Nurses Credentialing Center. It’s an honor achieved by fewer than one in five hospitals in the United States and a sign of our continued commitment to superior nursing. Our high standard of care is available to you across our entire health system. NYU Langone Receives Magnet Status for Nursing Excellence for the Fifth Consecutive Time Plastic Surgery We have two locations in Manhattan. View All Locations (2) Breast Plastic Surgery Services Cosmetic Surgery Services Cleft & Craniofacial Services myFace Family Support Center Hand Surgery Services Laser Treatment Services Noninvasive Weight Loss Services Oculoplastic Surgery Services Plastic Surgery Services for Children Gender-Affirming Surgery Services Preparing for Gender-Affirming Surgery Patient Stories At NYU Langone, our board-certified plastic surgeons from the specialize in cosmetic and reconstructive procedures for both adults and children. Our Plastic Surgery Services We provide a full range of reconstructive and cosmetic procedures to meet the needs of both adults and children. Our team of board-certified plastic surgeons offers the latest techniques in cancer surgery reconstruction, cleft and congenital craniofacial surgery hand surgery cosmetic surgery , anti-aging therapies, gender-affirming surgery oculoplastic surgery . We also offer a plastic surgery resident clinic , where medical doctors pursuing advanced training in plastic surgery provide cosmetic procedures at a reduced cost. Experts from the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery provide comprehensive and compassionate care for children and adults using the latest techniques, all within a comfortable setting. Reconstruction procedures may be required following cancer surgery or trauma of the face or body. Cosmetic procedures of the face include facelift, rhinoplasty, chin reshaping, neck liposuction, and mole removal. We also offer breast augmentation, breast reduction, tummy tucks, and weight loss procedures, including Vanquish . Botulinum toxin—commonly known by its trade name, Botox—and other injectables are offered as a noninvasive approach to improving appearance. Our surgeons provide to manage conditions that result in head and facial developmental deformities. Services for children are provided through . We also help people with disabilities resulting from cranial or peripheral nerve defects, as well as those with hearing and speech difficulties as a result of airway deformities. We are the only approved team in New York State with the ability to perform a face transplant for people who have experienced a traumatic injury or have a congenital facial malformation. Our Plastic Surgery Facility Many procedures are performed in our state-of-the-art center at NYU Langone Ambuatory Care Center—East 41st Street . We have full-service outpatient operating rooms and exam rooms, as well as a digital X-ray suite. We also have a playroom for children and an orthodontic unit featuring entertainment systems at each dental chair. Our facility is accredited by the American Association for Accreditation of Ambulatory Surgery Facilities—the gold standard for quality surgical care. Affiliated Programs Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Hyperbaric and Advanced Wound Healing Center Our surgeons work with experts at the Wound Healing Center to perform the intricate surgeries necessary when a person has serious wounds. Face Transplant Program This program is open to people who have experienced facial trauma or malformations due to other medical conditions. Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cosmetic Plastic Surgery Center Our plastic surgeons provide cosmetic procedures for the face, breasts, and body. Doctors at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone specialize in treating conditions that affect the appearance or development of the face and skull. Our Locations (2) NYU Langone Plastic Surgery Associates—41st Street 222 East 41st Street, New York, NY, 10017 212-263-3030 Getting Here Get Directions NYU Langone Plastic Surgery Associates—47th Street 305 East 47th Street, Suite 1A, New York, NY, 10017 212-355-5779 World’s First Whole-Eye & Partial-Face Transplant Recipient Achieves Remarkable Recovery Ben Shares His Phalloplasty Journey NYU Langone Doctors Help Teen on Transitioning Journey Face & Double Hand Transplant Delivers a ‘Second Chance’ After 50 Surgeries, Patient Finds the Right Treatment New Fund for Complex Reconstructive Plastic Surgery Care Woman’s Ear Is Reconstructed Using 3D-Printing Technology NYU Langone Health Performs Its Second Face Transplant Face Transplant Helps with Young Californian’s Recovery NYU Langone Surgeon Praised by Trans Patients How to Prepare for Top Surgery Plastic Surgeon Explains Cleidocranial Dysplasia When you’re recovering from surgery, there’s no place like home. Not only will you be more comfortable in your own surroundings, you’ll recover faster. At NYU Langone, we’re ensuring that patients spend less time in the hospital, with an expected length of stay that is lower than any other health system in the nation. A shorter length of stay—the time you spend in the hospital—can reduce the risk of medication side effects and hospital infection, and your hospital costs. We apply rigorous quality control measures to minimize infection and other complications. Getting patients home sooner once it’s safe to leave the hospital means more efficient and effective care, and better outcomes. Source: 2024 Vizient Quality and Accountability Ranking. Length of stay in the top 5% of all comprehensive academic medical centers Our Quality and Safety Standards NYU Langone knows how important it is that the care you need is always within reach. Our stretch across Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island, and the Bronx. But we also go farther, to Long Island, Westchester, and Florida. We work hard to make it convenient to get the same high-quality care close to where you work or live or vacation. That’s part of what makes us a better health system—one standard of care across our integrated system. is one of the nation’s premier programs for heart kidney liver lung transplant , according to the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients (SRTR), which tracks data on solid-organ transplant in the United States. We are one of the highest-volume transplant programs in New York with top-quality outcomes. Because of our ability to constantly innovate, and depending on the type of organ needed, many of our patients spend less time on the waitlist than those at any other hospital in the state. Our doctors offer a compassionate approach throughout every step of the transplant process to ensure high-quality, personalized care. Daughter Gives Mother New Life with Living Donor Liver Transplant Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care helps children feel more at ease when receiving care at our hospital. Through art, music, and other support services, we encourage kids to express their feelings and help them cope when they’re feeling overwhelmed. We closely partner with families to understand the unique needs of their child so we can provide thoughtful, personalized care. These are some of the many ways in which the institute, a part of Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, works to create a culture of mutual respect and information sharing, while improving clinical outcomes. We recently launched a new pathology lab, and because it’s all digital, that means no more glass slides. No more transporting them from one lab to another. And no more waits to get biopsies in front of the doctors who need to see them. Incredibly clear images are now shared across labs and clinics in real time. It’s easier than ever before to diagnose, gather the data we need, and collaborate—across the city, across the country, even across continents. For you, this means faster, more accurate outcomes. Digital samples are another way we bring you better health, today and in the future. NYU Langone Health Propels Disease Detection into the Digital Age Cough? Sore throat? Stomach bug? When you want a medical provider to weigh in on symptoms but can’t break away for an in-person appointment, consider scheduling a same-day video visit with Virtual Urgent Care. Our providers see adults and children ages 5 and older for a wide range of non-emergency medical concerns, from flu-like symptoms to infections. You can connect by desktop, laptop, tablet, or mobile device from the convenience of your home or office or while you’re on the go. Virtual visits are just another way we help you get the care you need—when you need it. We have locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn. To request an appointment, please call one of our neurosurgeons. Common Neurological Tests The neurosurgeons at NYU Langone are guided by a simple philosophy: our patients always come first. We believe that when patient care is optimized, training and research are also of the highest quality. This approach has allowed our neurosurgeons to be leaders in the field for more than 50 years. Recognition U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery. VIDEO: Members of the Department of Neurosurgery discuss the state-of-the-art neurosurgical technologies that are built into NYU Langone’s Kimmel Pavilion. As one of the nation’s premier neurosurgery programs, we offer surgical experience that few institutions can match. Other physicians routinely refer patients who have the most complex brain and spinal cord conditions to our neurosurgeons. Our surgeons’ clinical skills are complemented by their deep commitment to compassionate patient care, supported by a team of nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and staff who are unsurpassed in their training, expertise, and empathy. Research and Education We have diverse neurosurgery research programs and medical training opportunities. Our world-class facilities within NYU Langone’s include two floors dedicated to neurosurgical care—one floor with seven operating rooms (ORs) and a neuro-intensive care unit (neuro-ICU) solely devoted to neurosurgical recovery. Our “smart” ORs are digitally integrated and are equipped with the most advanced technology, including Surgical Theater, a three-dimensional platform for planning and performing surgery, and Brainlab, integrated software for surgical planning, surgical navigation, data management, and intraoperative imaging. Our world-class facilities include the latest in neurosurgical technology, including intraoperative MRI and a hybrid vascular operating room. Two of our ORs offer intraoperative MRI, allowing our neurosurgeons to make real-time decisions based on imaging results during surgery. We also are home to a hybrid vascular OR that offers angiography and traditional OR capabilities, which enables our team to seamlessly perform procedures that require advanced imaging and may require a transition to open surgery. All patient information, including charts, imaging results, and surgical navigation plans, is available at our surgeons’ fingertips through interactive video monitors in each OR. This smart OR technology allows our team to maximize the level of care and safety for each patient. Latest News Lessons Learned from Being Treated for a Brain Tumor Survivor of Rare Brain Condition Celebrates Valentine’s Day New Leader in Brain Tumor Treatment & Research Named Conditions We Treat with Neurosurgery Our doctors rank among the very best neurosurgeons in their field, and treat all types of conditions affecting the brain and spinal cord, such as: brain tumors, including glioma and astrocytoma as well as metastatic brain tumors skull base tumors acoustic neuroma brain aneurysms, such as arteriovenous malformations and fistulas childhood brain and spinal cord tumors normal pressure hydrocephalus pediatric hydrocephalus scoliosis in adults pediatric scoliosis stroke and vascular disease carpal tunnel syndrome movement disorders trigeminal neuralgia neck pain back pain spina bifida spondylolysis spondylolisthesis neurofibromatosis We perform the full spectrum of brain, spine, and nerve surgery in adults and children using a range of cutting-edge neurosurgical approaches, including interventional neurovascular procedures, minimally invasive and endoscopic cranial and spinal techniques, skull base approaches, and stereotactic radiosurgery. This same patient-centered approach extends to our state-of-the-art surgical facilities, our groundbreaking neurosurgical research laboratories , and our outstanding residency training program . With the most cutting-edge technologies and treatments at our disposal, and access to NYU Langone’s world-class specialists in complementary fields such as neurology, neuro-oncology, neuropathology, neuroradiology, neuro-ophthalmology, otolaryngology, radiation oncology and endocrinology, our neurosurgeons we have the best tools to provide the very highest level of care. Request an Appointment with a Neurosurgeon To find a location or request an appointment, please select a doctor Physicians seeking to refer a patient to NYU Langone may call 212-263-2950 Our Neurosurgery Programs Brain & Spine Tumor Center Our center has a longstanding reputation as a leader in the treatment of brain tumors and skull base tumors in adults and children. Center for Advanced Radiosurgery Our experts use Gamma Knife® radiosurgery for noninvasive brain surgery. Center for Neuromodulation Our doctors use implantable neurostimulators and other surgical techniques to manage neurological conditions. Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases We combine medical skill with technology to manage neurovascular conditions. Comprehensive Epilepsy Center We provide personalized treatment that improves seizure control and quality of life. Cranial Bypass Program We perform extracranial–intracranial bypass surgery, also called cranial bypass surgery, to treat people who are at increased risk for stroke. Pituitary Center Our experts are leaders in advanced treatment for people with all types of pituitary tumors and disorders. Peripheral Nerve Center Our doctors specialize in surgical treatment for conditions that affect the nerves outside the central nervous system. Spine Center Our neurosurgeons offer a range of treatment options for people with spine conditions. Endoscopic Spine Surgery Program Our endoscopic spine surgeons perform ultra-minimally invasive procedures for several conditions of the neck and lower back. Household Income Is Factor in Decisions to Stop Life Support Neurosurgeons Use New Tech as ‘Window’ to the Brain How NYU Langone’s Neurosurgery Program Became No. 1 Cancer Specialist Plays Guitar at Patient’s Comeback Concert Artificial Intelligence Diagnoses Brain Tumors in the OR A Delicate Brain Surgery Requires an Awake Patient Advanced Planning Enables Rare Spinal Tumor Resection Neurosurgical Skill, Advanced Imaging Enable Risky Resection Artificial Intelligence Fuels Neurosurgical Progress Social Media Comment Policy for the General Public At NYU Langone Health, we have an active presence on social media. Through social media channels such as Twitter we hope to engage in conversation with individuals and organizations who are interested in medical care, research, and education. We encourage your comments and opinions, and we aim to respond to as many of your posts as we can. To keep the conversation productive, we ask you to please: Keep personal information private . Please don’t post medical and personal information about yourself or others, including family and friends. The internet is not private, and the information that you post will never go away, sometimes even after you delete it. Be honest. Please don’t misrepresent yourself or post information that you know is incorrect. Be polite. If you use profanity or post a personal attack, vulgar language, or harassing comment, we will remove it. Don’t post spam. This includes repeated postings, chain letters, advertisements, and all other postings that are unrelated to healthcare or NYU Langone Health. We reserve the right to review comments posted on our social media sites and to remove any that violate our policy. We also reserve the right to block repeat offenders from continuing to post. Please remember that medical information is covered by privacy laws. We can’t comment on the specifics of your medical situation or answer questions regarding your medical treatment on social media. We’re here to provide information, not advice, so our postings are not professional medical recommendations. Please consult your medical provider with any specific questions that you have about your health. Postings that appear on our social media do not necessarily reflect the views of NYU Langone Health. When we link to another website, that site may not necessarily reflect our views, either. And, if we choose to follow another user or highlight another social media post, we are not endorsing that user or content. Finally, when you post on any of our social media channels, you agree to indemnify us against any legal claims related to posted material, such as damages, losses, liabilities, judgments, costs, and/or expenses. We look forward to interacting with you. Learn more about our secure email messaging system, SendSafe, for external email communications. FAQs for SendSafe Email Recipients Quick Reference Guide for SendSafe Email Recipients The Office of Research Compliance provides support and education for members of the NYU Langone Health community in conducting scientific research in compliance with regulatory requirements and ethical standards. Research Compliance supports all institutional oversight functions related to research in the following areas: Human Subjects Protection, Animal Welfare, Clinical Trials and FDA Compliance, Scientific Misconduct and Responsible Conduct of Research, Grants Management, Financial Administration of Research, Allowable Cost Compliance, Environmental Health and Safety, Biosafety and Radiation Safety, Select Agents and Export Controls Regulation, Research Data and Materials, Ownership and Use, and the Bayh-Dole Act requirements regarding federally funded inventions. Research Compliance leads or assists in the development of research-related policies and procedures, auditing and monitoring of compliance with federal and state laws and regulations involving the conduct of research, training and education in research compliance, assurance of compliance by collaborators and sub-recipients, and the investigation and resolution of research-related, non-compliance events, concerns and allegations. Policies Code of Conduct Policy - Institutional Conflicts of Interest in Human Subjects Research Policy - Research and Other Sponsored Programs Conflict of Interest Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation Policy The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management’s Professional Billing Compliance team supports physicians, non-physician providers, and administrators of the NYU Grossman School of Medicine Faculty Group Practice (FGP) to ensure accurate billing, coding, and documentation for professional services. Professional Billing Compliance provides group and individual training and education and provides guidance regarding billing for new services and unique scenarios and ongoing assessments of compliance risks. Professional Billing Compliance also works with individual faculty group practices to respond to government and third-party payer inquiries and audits. Researchers at have found that women experiencing chest pain wait 11 minutes longer to receive care in the emergency department than men with the same symptoms, highlighting a critical gap in heart attack diagnosis and treatment. To address this disparity, our cardiologists have developed a deep understanding of women’s heart health. We know that women who are experiencing a heart attack may describe their symptoms—especially chest pain—differently from men. We also use the latest diagnostic tools to determine the cause of women’s heart symptoms so that we can create the best possible treatment plans. This is one of the many ways our health system leverages the latest research to provide top-quality patient care. Women’s Heart Attacks Are Often Misdiagnosed. Dr. Harmony Reynolds Is on a Mission to Change That. Women’s Cardiology Schedule an Appointment View & Share Radiology Images & Reports For Referring Physicians Radiation Safety MRI Scans CT Scans Ultrasound Imaging X-Ray Imaging Mammography Interventional Radiology Bone Density Testing PET/CT Scans Nuclear Medicine Imaging It’s now easier than ever to view and share your radiology images and print your imaging reports. View and Share Your Radiology Images and Reports on a Mobile Device Most reports are posted in your as soon as they are available. Using the on a mobile device, you can view your report and radiology images. You can also share them with your family, friends, or care team outside of NYU Langone by following the steps below: Log in to the NYU Langone Health app and tap on the “Test Results” icon. Tap on the exam name to view the report. To view the images, select “Click Here to View Your Images” at the top of the report. You can also view the report if posted via the timeline at the top of the image viewer by clicking on the document icon. Images are released to patients immediately following the exam. If you need to view your images before the report is available: Log in to the NYU Langone Health app, tap on the “Menu” icon, and then select “Radiology Services.” Select the “View Images & Results” button. Select the “Go to Images to View and Share” button. To share your images and reports: After following the above steps, tap “Send Link” on the image viewer toolbar to create and send a secure link to share your images. If you wish to share multiple exams at once, click on “Select More Studies” button and select the necessary exams. Enter the recipient’s email address and create a password, and tap “Get Link.” To paste this link into an email or text, select “Copy Link.” If you want to send the link using your default email app, select “Send Link Via Email.” An email is generated by your default email account. Send the recipient the password for the link in a separate message. The link to the images activates approximately 15 minutes after it is created and expires in 14 days. View, Share, and Download Radiology Images and Print Reports on a Computer You can use your on a computer to view, share, and download your images and also print your imaging reports by doing the following: Log in to your NYU Langone Health MyChart account, tap on the “Test Results” icon. Click on the imaging exam name to read the report. To print the report, click on the printer icon at the top of the report. To view the images, select “Click Here to View Your Images To create and send a secure link to share your images, select “Send Link” from the image viewer toolbar. Enter the recipient’s email address and create a password, and click on “Get Link.” If multiple exams are to be shared, click “Select More Studies” and select the necessary exams. To paste this link into an email, select “Copy Link.” If you want to send the link using your default email software, select “Send Link Via Email.” An email is generated by your default email account. Send the recipient the password for the link in a separate message. The link to the images activates approximately 15 minutes after it is created and expires in 14 days. You can also download your images by selecting “Download Study” from the image viewer toolbar. Reports will not be downloaded with the images. You will need to print the reports for your MyChart account or from the report viewer in the image viewer. Reports are available by clicking the document icon next to the study at the top of the image viewer. If you need to view your images before the report is available, log in to your NYU Langone Health MyChart account and select the “Menu” option and then click on “View Radiology Images.” Your most recent exam will open with all other exams viewable in the timeline at the top of the viewer. If you are experiencing technical difficulties, please contact our technical support team at At NYU Langone Health, we go to great lengths to ensure your medical information is securely stored in a single electronic health record, accessible through our . This means you and each of your health providers can view your medical history, lab results, prescriptions, and more at the click of a button. Using one medical record across our health system helps to integrate and streamline services—whether you are connecting with Virtual Urgent Care, seeing your primary care doctor, or undergoing imaging. The NYU Langone Health app also allows you to schedule appointments, make electronic payments, send private and secure electronic messages to your health providers, and grant medical record access to a trusted family member or caregiver. Liver Transplant Program 212-263-8133 Living Liver Donation Experts at the Liver Transplant Program, a part of the , provide care for adults and children in need of a liver transplant. We also offer complete medical and surgical care for people who have a wide range of acute or chronic liver disease, including hepatitis B and C ; cholestatic liver disease; sclerosing cholangitis; acute fulminant liver failure; hepatocellular carcinoma, meaning liver cancer ; and biliary tract disorders. Leaders in Liver Transplant We are the No. 1 liver transplant program in New York State, based on the SRTR outcomes of fast transplant rates and high patient survival. According to the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients (SRTR), which tracks data related to solid-organ transplants in the United States, we are the top liver transplant program in New York and have a 100-percent one-year survival rate for people who receive a liver from a living donor. We are also one of the top centers in New York for getting a deceased donor liver faster and for our one-year survival rate for recipients. Care for children with liver-related conditions is provided through our Pediatric Liver Transplant Program , part of . Through our Latino Liver Program , we provide the most medically advanced and culturally conscious care to Hispanic and Latino/a/x children and adults who need or may need a liver transplant or liver surgery. Your Liver The liver is the largest solid organ in the human body, located under the rib cage on the upper right side of the abdomen. It has many life-sustaining functions, making it one of the most important organs in the body. It aids digestion by breaking down and storing nutrients, including fats, proteins, carbohydrates, vitamins, and minerals. It aids circulation by filtering and processing blood to remove harmful substances. The liver is also responsible for manufacturing proteins that enable blood to clot. Support the Liver Transplant Program Make a monetary donation to support our work in liver transplantation. Injury to the liver from conditions such as hepatitis, liver cancer, metabolic dysfunction liver disease, or drug toxicity, excessive alcohol consumption, or nutritional deficiencies can lead to acute liver failure or chronic scarring, known as cirrhosis. The damaged liver is unable to carry out its many functions. People with these conditions may experience progressively worsening symptoms. Our hepatology, transplant hepatology, and surgery teams provide diagnosis and treatment for all liver conditions. For some people with severe or advanced liver disease, a liver transplant may be their best treatment option. When a Liver Transplant Is Needed If you have been referred for a liver transplant evaluation, your physician has recognized these signs of liver failure, and a transplant may be your best option. There are two sources of liver donation: from a living donor , which is someone willing to donate a piece of their liver, and from a deceased donor, whose family has consented to donate the entire liver. In the United States, deceased donors are the most common source of livers for transplant. NYU Langone’s renowned liver and transplant specialists diagnose liver conditions and help you weigh your treatment options to determine whether a transplant is the best approach. We conduct liver transplant evaluations and provide pre- and post-transplant outpatient care at our Manhattan location and on Long Island. Other Types of Liver Surgery Our surgeons also specialize in the following procedures. Hepatobiliary Surgery Our specialists perform nontransplant to manage a variety of diseases affecting the liver, bile duct, and gallbladder. Advanced techniques, including minimally invasive and conventional surgery, are used to treat people with these conditions. Procedures include the following: surgical removal of benign and malignant diseases of the liver, including hepatocellular carcinoma surgical repair or removal of the gallbladder and bile duct to treat people with benign and malignant disease laparoscopic repair of bile duct injuries and bile duct stones laparoscopic gallbladder removal Surgery for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Surgery for hepatocellular carcinoma involves removing the diseased portion of the liver. This usually includes the tumor and surrounding tissue. The patient’s liver is able to regenerate within a few weeks, depending on the size of the portion removed. For more information, call 212-263-8133 or email NYUTxpLiverProgram@NYULangone.org Our doctors are leaders in the field of liver transplantation. Patrick G. Northup MD Liver Transplant Medical Director Karim J. Halazun Liver Transplant Surgical Director AnnMarie Liapakis Living Donor Liver Transplant Medical Director Adam Griesemer Living Donor Liver Transplant Surgical Director David M. Feldman Hepatologist Viviana Figueroa Diaz Ira M. Jacobson Saikiran M. Kilaru Raiya Sarwar Feng Su Alejandro Torres-Hernandez Transplant Surgeon View All 11 Doctors & Schedule Affiliated Programs & Centers Our Liver Transplant Program is part of one of the country’s leading organ transplant centers. Our program specialists offer care for children with liver-related conditions. Culturally conscious care for Hispanic and Latino children and adults is available through our Latino Liver Program. Living Liver Donor Information A liver donation may come from a living donor. We understand that the decision to have is life changing. Our transgender healthcare team provides support and education to help you and your loved ones know what to expect throughout the gender-affirming surgery process. As your surgical date approaches, we schedule one-on-one preoperative education visits with our nursing team. For those seeking genital surgery, we host classes with former patients who can share their experiences and introduce you to nurses and other staff who provide care in the hospital. Preoperative and postoperative photographs of procedure outcomes are available at the time of your surgical consultation. Referrals to mental health professionals who can support your emotional and physical wellbeing are also available. Presurgical Requirements There are certain requirements that need to be fulfilled before surgery, including surgical referral letters from mental health professionals and clinicians who provide hormone therapy; insurance authorization, which is done by our office; and hair removal for people having vaginoplasty or phalloplasty. Surgical Referral Letters Our surgeons follow the standards of care guidelines provided by the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH). This requires obtaining letters from your mental health professional and the clinician who managed your hormone therapy. We provide referrals to mental health professionals who can assist with letter writing and support your emotional wellbeing during this process. Here are suggestions for what to include in your surgery recommendation letter Insurance Authorization Our office makes every effort to obtain insurance authorization after surgery has been scheduled. Please confirm that your insurance plan includes gender-affirming benefits before consultation. We offer a guide to verifying your health insurance benefits Occasionally, our efforts to authorize procedures are not successful even for those with gender-affirming surgery benefits, and in these instances we may refer patients to options for no- or low-cost legal assistance. Hair Removal If your surgical plan includes vaginoplasty or phalloplasty, permanent hair removal by either electrolysis or laser treatment is required before surgery. Please message us through your for details on hair removal requirements. We are located in Manhattan. 646-501-4481 At NYU Langone’s Face Transplant Program, part of the and under the leadership of , our experts have performed multiple face transplants. These include the first face transplant in New York State the world’s first whole-eye and partial-face transplant We are pioneers in face transplant surgery, as one of only a handful of medical centers in the United States—and the only one in New York State—with a dedicated program for face transplants. Research Program We have a clinical research study open to selected patients who have sustained facial trauma or disfigurement, burns, and acquired malformations of the face. Pioneers in Face Transplant Surgery A face transplant is an incredibly complex procedure that requires the expertise of more than 100 physicians, nurses, medical staff, and support staff. This surgery involves the transplantation of facial tissue from a deceased donor to a person with a severe facial deformity. A face transplant has the potential to transform a person’s life by restoring function, appearance, and sensation in the face, as well as enhancing overall quality of life. VIDEO: Aaron James received a whole-eye and partial-face transplant. We use the most advanced three-dimensional (3D) imaging technology before and during the surgery to create a model of the donor’s face, map out the complex procedure for the recipient, develop a plan to achieve maximum aesthetic and functional results, and guide the entire operation. As innovators, our experts in the Face Transplant Program continue to perform research to improve all aspects of this procedure. Recently, our surgeons achieved the shortest wait time of approximately 18 months, from initial injury to the face transplant surgery, for a patient. This substantial reduction in wait time allows for better physical and emotional recovery for our patients. “I am very grateful to be given a second chance.” Joe, Age 22 Read All Face Transplant Patient Stories Our surgeons’ experience and expertise have also helped them reduce the length of the surgery itself, which lowers the risk of complications for patients. This reduced surgery time helps to decrease the amount of time a patient stays in the hospital after the procedure, allowing them to return home sooner. After our patients leave the hospital, they continue outpatient rehabilitation therapy through , which often involves a combination of physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech therapy. They also take anti-rejection medications to help the body’s response to the new organ, and NYU Langone’s new anti-rejection therapies are helping to provide better outcomes for our patients. Groundbreaking Transplant Procedures Using the cutting-edge technology and expansive operating rooms found in NYU Langone’s , our highly skilled surgical teams simultaneously operate on donors and recipients to perform innovative transplant procedures. Whole-Eye and Partial-Face Transplant Building on the surgical expertise gained from our previous face transplant procedures, our team was the first to perform a whole-eye and partial-face transplant. Our surgeons transplanted the donor’s entire left eye and a portion of the face to the recipient, helping to restore appearance. This procedure demonstrates how our team continues to embrace innovation in the field of face transplantation. Face and Double Hand Transplant Our team was also the first in the world to successfully transplant both hands to the mid-forearm and the full face of a single donor to the same recipient. The groundbreaking success of this combination transplant procedure illustrates our team’s dedication to taking on new challenges and advancing the field of transplantation. If you are a physician or a patient who would like more information about our face transplant services, please contact us at 646-501-4481 or email FaceTransplant@NYULangone.org Whole-Eye & Partial-Face Transplant Is a World First Podcast: Rising Above the Challenges of COVID-19 Face & Double Hand Transplant at NYU Langone Is Successful Man Receives First Successful Face & Double Hand Transplant NYU Langone Performs First Successful Face & Hand Transplant 22-Year-Old Receives First Successful Face & Hand Transplant Podcast: Would You Risk It All for a New Face? A Novel Approach to Preventing Face Transplant Rejection A New Face & a Second Chance Imaging Services for Referring Physicians The board-certified radiologists at NYU Langone specialize in acquiring and interpreting images for specific parts of the body or specific diseases. We refine our clinical skills by collaborating with colleagues to review the care plans of patients and share clinical expertise at professional conferences. We are consistently adding new services, improving our imaging with state-of-the-art MRI and CT scanners, and enhancing the way we communicate with our referrers with new tools, such as the multimedia report, in order to better serve our physicians and patients. The multimedia report is a new way of communicating with our clinicians that we are currently working on and preparing for widespread use at NYU Langone. The multimedia report is an enhanced, easy-to-use imaging report that includes embedded images that link the report to a corresponding imaging study, making it easier to understand the study’s important findings. Preauthorization Services In a continuous effort to better serve referring physicians and patients, NYU Langone Radiology offers preauthorization services for diagnostic radiology services such as MRI, CT scans, and PET/CT scans. Our team can initiate and obtain preauthorization, allowing your office to focus its time on other patient care needs. We follow up on health insurance requirements throughout the process, and notify your office if additional information is needed. To request information about the preauthorization process, email nyuradiologygetauth@nyulangone.org to have a physician liaison contact your office to review program specifics. You can also fill out our preauthorization form and email it to us. Questions About Reports or Imaging Exams If you have questions about a radiology report or imaging examination, please call our ombudsman at 212-263-5222 between 8:00AM and 6:00PM, Monday through Friday. Learn More About Our Expertise subspecialties, research, and training programs Lung Transplant Program 550 First Avenue View Location Details 866-838-5864 At the Lung Transplant Program, a part of the , we are dedicated to managing advanced lung diseases. We offer people 12 years of age and older effective treatment options and provide excellent care through every stage of the lung transplant process. Treatment for children is provided at the Pediatric Kidney Transplant Program through Excellent One-Year Survival One-year survival after lung transplantation is 94.19 percent. Our excellent 94.19 percent one-year survival rate in adults after transplantation—combined with our patients getting a transplant faster, low mortality on the transplant list, and the high volume of transplants we perform—makes us the top-ranked lung transplant center in the country, as calculated by the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients (SRTR). Our doctors may recommend a single- or double-lung transplant for people with chronic, end-stage lung disease when maximum medical therapy offers no relief or when no effective therapy exists. In 2023, 97 percent of our lung transplants were bilateral, leading to better outcomes for our patients. People who have one of the following conditions may be candidates for a lung transplant: interstitial lung diseases such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis sarcoidosis , hypersensitivity pneumonitis, pulmonary manifestations of collagen vascular disease, eosinophilic granuloma, and lymphangiomyomatosis (LAM) pulmonary vascular disorders, such as primary pulmonary hypertension obstructive lung diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) , emphysema, and alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency bronchiectasis , including cystic fibrosis other rare conditions that affect the lungs Your physician or pulmonologist may refer you to the NYU Langone Transplant Institute for evaluation, or you may contact us yourself. This does not mean automatic acceptance as a transplant candidate. Rather, it’s the beginning of an evaluation process that determines whether a lung transplant is the right choice for you, and whether you are a suitable candidate for the procedure. Your First Visit Support the Lung Transplant Program Make a monetary donation to support our leading lung transplant program. During your first visit, our lung transplant team meets with you to review your medical records and radiology films. You are asked to complete a six-minute walking test to determine how far you’re able to walk during that time and to measure your oxygen levels. You complete this test at every subsequent visit, and doctors measure the results each time against those from your first visit. Next, one of our transplant physicians meets with you to discuss your medical history and conduct a complete physical examination. If the physician determines that you’re a candidate to begin transplant evaluation testing, our transplant nurse coordinator schedules additional tests that begin approximately two weeks after your initial visit. Lung Transplant Evaluation Once our experts begin your lung transplant evaluation, our transplant nurse coordinator schedules tests and consultations with members of the lung transplant team, including the following: radiology tests cardiac catheterization and other cardiac tests, such as an echocardiogram and 12-lead electrocardiogram (EKG) lab work, such as a blood test to check for antibodies in the blood, blood type test, chemistries, complete blood count (CBC), hepatitis panel, HIV test, and immunoglobulin panel meetings with a social worker, financial coordinator, dietitian, pharmacist, and lung transplant surgeon In addition to examining the results of the evaluation, our team considers the type and severity of lung disease, symptoms, and your age. Throughout the process, we continually consider whether you are a suitable candidate for a lung transplant and make sure that you and your family have all the necessary information to make an informed decision. If our team determines that you are a lung transplant candidate, we help you prepare for candidacy. Based on the results of your evaluation tests, you are assigned a Lung Composite Allocation Score, or CAS, and our transplant nurse coordinator places you on the United Network of Organ Sharing (UNOS) national waiting list. Your place on the list is determined by your CAS and your blood type. Once you are on the waiting list, you must be prepared for surgery whenever donor lungs become available. We conduct lung transplant evaluations and provide pre- and post-transplant outpatient care at our Manhattan location. After Lung Transplant Surgery In the months after your transplant, you have frequent checkups with our team. At these checkups, our experts make sure you are doing well, adjust your medications if necessary, and monitor you for infections or other complications. Our lung transplant team pioneered the use of remote health monitoring after lung transplant and that reduce the need for checkups in person. Treatment for Chronic Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, or CTEPH, is high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs caused by repeated blood clots or clots that do not dissolve. Our cardiothoracic surgeons perform the recommended treatment for CTEPH, which is a pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. During this highly precise surgery, you are placed on a heart–lung machine—a device that pumps oxygenated blood to your body—as the surgeon carefully clears the blood vessels from the inside. This allows blood to again flow normally through the previously blocked areas. For additional information or to make an appointment, please call our team at 866-838-LUNG (866-838-5864) or email us at LungTxp@NYULangone.org Our doctors are leaders in the field of lung transplantation. Luis F. Angel Lung Transplant Medical Director Stephanie H. Chang Lung Transplant Surgical Director Justin C. Chan Cardiac Surgeon Travis C. Geraci Thoracic Surgeon Melissa B. Lesko DO Pulmonologist Jake G. Natalini Critical Care Specialist Darya Rudym 7 Our Lung Transplant Program is part of the NYU Langone Transplant Institute. CTEPH Program Doctors at our Lung Transplant Program may work with CTEPH Program specialists. Our Location 550 First Avenue, New York, NY, 10016 Innovative Study Aims to Increase Donor Lungs from Unexpected Deaths First-Ever Robotic Double Lung Transplant Complete NYU Langone’s Fully Robotic Lung Transplant Is First in U.S. How to Schedule an Imaging Appointment All imaging appointments at NYU Langone can be scheduled by phone. Many types can also be scheduled using the Schedule Using Our App If your NYU Langone doctor has ordered an imaging exam, you can schedule most appointments using the NYU Langone Health app. Please note that you must have an order from your physician to schedule an imaging appointment. If you do not have this order, please obtain one from your physician before contacting us to schedule. Schedule an Imaging Appointment by Phone Please call our scheduling associates at the numbers below, depending on the location of the imaging center. Manhattan: 212-263-8868 Brooklyn: 929-455-3100 Queens and Long Island: 516-222-2022 Staten Island: 718-605-6500 If your doctor provided you with a paper prescription, please have it available when you call. Please also have your insurance card available. If you are scheduling an MRI and you have an implant, have your implant card available as well. Schedule an Imaging Appointment Online If the doctor who ordered your imaging exam is not part of the NYU Langone network or if you have a paper prescription for the imaging exam, you must call to make an appointment. If your NYU Langone doctor ordered an imaging exam, you can self-schedule most appointments by following the steps below: Log in to the app with your username and password. Once you are logged in, all imaging exams that are available for scheduling appear on the home screen. Click or tap on the “Schedule Now” button and follow the prompts to schedule your appointment. Procedures and some imaging exams cannot currently be self-scheduled. Please call us to schedule your appointment. If you don’t yet have the NYU Langone Health app, download the app from the App Store Google Play . Log in to the app with your NYU Langone Health MyChart username and password. If you don’t have a MyChart account, you can create your account now After Scheduling Your Appointment You can use the NYU Langone Health app to complete questionnaires before your visit, and to view arrival and preparation instructions. After your appointment, you can use the app to read your results and view and share the exam images. Insurance Authorization for Imaging Services Some imaging exams require insurance preauthorization, depending on the exam and your insurance carrier. After you schedule an appointment, our preauthorization team reviews your information and contacts your insurance carrier or referring physician. If authorization is not received by three business days before your exam, we contact you to reschedule your appointment. If you have questions about billing or insurance for imaging services, please call , weekdays from 8:30AM to 4:30PM. What to Bring to Your Exam Please bring the following to your appointment: a list of your current medications your insurance card a form of identification with your picture on it a prescription or written request for the imaging exam, if provided by your physician Radiation safety is a top priority when you receive at NYU Langone. Small amounts of radiation are used in medical imaging, such as X-rays nuclear medicine studies, to produce detailed images of the human body. For example, a chest X-ray gives you about the same amount of radiation as you would get from taking four airplane flights from New York to Los Angeles. While the small amount of radiation used in medical imaging is unlikely to cause harm, we use the lowest amount of radiation necessary to produce diagnostic images because of the potential risk. We continually strive to find the right balance between producing high-quality images and minimizing the potential harm to patients. Latest Technology to Reduce Radiation Doses In our ongoing efforts to protect our patients, we invest in the latest technology that can deliver higher-quality images at lower radiation doses. We also continually monitor the radiation produced by our equipment, and submit these values to the American College of Radiology’s national database that tracks radiation doses from CT scanners across the country. We regularly compare our radiation doses against other institutions to ensure that we are exceeding the current radiation safety standards of the medical imaging community. Our CT scanners are equipped with software that monitors the amount of radiation you are exposed to during your exam. If there is a risk that the radiation exposure may increase beyond our threshold for safety, our CT technologists can modify the exam to ensure that only a safe level of radiation is emitted. During an X-ray, each study is focused on the area of the body that is of most interest to your doctor, to avoid any unnecessary radiation to other parts of your body. Our X-ray technologists also use radiation shields and aprons to protect areas that are sensitive to radiation and not necessary for the imaging tests, such as the breasts in women and reproductive organs in men and women. We also use tracking and monitoring systems to ensure that our nuclear medicine imaging equipment is working properly and that the radiation is controlled within safe, standard limits. Center for Stroke & Neurovascular Diseases We have locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn. 833-698-2763 Treatment of Neurovascular Conditions One of the Top Hospitals in the Nation U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery. Excellence in Stroke Care Our Comprehensive Stroke Center is accredited by The Joint Commission and the New York State Department of Health. Expert Neurovascular Treatment We provide the most advanced care for people who have disorders affecting blood vessels of the brain and spinal cord. NYU Langone’s Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases is one of the premier centers in the world for the medical, surgical, and endovascular treatment of diseases that affect the blood vessels of the brain and spinal cord. People are regularly referred to us from across the country and around the world, and our experts devise solutions for conditions considered untreatable elsewhere. Our center brings together leading experts in neurology, neurosurgery, neurocritical care, neuro-interventional radiology, neuroradiology, and neurorehabilitation. They specialize in diagnosing and treating people who have the most difficult and complex disorders affecting blood vessels of the brain and spinal cord, as well as recommending preventive strategies for those who may be at high risk for these conditions. Our doctors provide ongoing care for people who have experienced or are at risk for a transient ischemic attack (TIA) , and people who have a complex neurovascular disease such as a brain aneurysm, arteriovenous malformations , dural and arteriovenous fistulas, vascular tumors, cavernous malformations, carotid stenosis , and carotid or vertebral dissection. People who have experienced a stroke or TIA and those with complex neurovascular diseases have a specialized set of medical needs. We provide highly specialized care to people recovering from brain injury and surgical treatments in our neurointensive care units at , and Our experienced team of clinicians helps patients navigate treatment and offers access to a full spectrum of resources designed to expertly manage clinical care, including rehabilitation and recovery services at and risk reduction programs at NYU Langone’s Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease Specialized Medical Care for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Stroke Center is an integral part of the Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases and provides advanced stroke care 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. With locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn, the Comprehensive Stroke Center offers rapid diagnosis, effective treatment, multidisciplinary preventive strategies, and advanced rehabilitative care for people who have experienced or are at risk for a stroke. Our team at the Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases collaborates with Comprehensive Stroke Center experts to coordinate care from stroke risk identification through treatment and recovery. Our vascular neurologists create individualized treatment plans for patients based on the stroke subtype and any other contributing factors. During an acute stroke, our vascular neurologists are among the first team members to see a patient. They rapidly triage patients and assess the need for emergency treatment. If a stroke diagnosis is confirmed, they create an individualized treatment plan based on the stroke subtype and any other contributing factors. Some people at risk for stroke may receive intravenous drugs to dissolve a blood clot, or a procedure to remove the clot with a catheter. Some people with more serious injury may need the neurocritical care provided by specialty trained neuro-intensivists and nurses in our intensive care units. A patient care coordinator guides you through any lifestyle changes and medical care that may be recommended to prevent stroke and its complications. Advanced Surgical Care Our specialists provide a full range of advanced treatment approaches, including open microneurosurgery, in which tiny instruments and microscopes are used to perform procedures on the smallest blood vessels. They also perform endovascular surgery, which enables surgeons to use the blood vessels as direct pathways to the part of the body that needs treatment. Our doctors offer radiosurgery with Gamma Knife technology , which allows for the precise delivery of radiation when treating people with blood vessel conditions in the brain, such as brain arteriovenous malformations. Leaders in Stroke Research Experts at Rusk Rehabilitation’s Motor Recovery Research Lab conduct clinical trials to develop better treatment options and care for people who have had a stroke. Learn More About Stroke Research The highly skilled neurosurgeons at our also specialize in performing extracranial–intracranial bypass surgery—often called cranial bypass or cerebral bypass surgery—to improve blood flow to the brain and prevent strokes. Our team has years of experience performing this surgical technique for people who are at risk for recurrent stroke or bleeding inside the brain. Our world-class facilities include hybrid surgical suites that feature built-in three-dimensional and four-dimensional imaging technology and computer image guidance systems that our doctors use to treat the most complex conditions. This type of image-guided surgery aids your doctor in making important decisions such as determining the best place to make an incision, the optimal path to the targeted area, and the critical areas in the brain or spinal cord to avoid. The use of this technology has been shown to shorten the length of surgery, decrease the size of the incision, improve outcomes, and speed recovery. For more information about the Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases, call 833-NYU-CSND ( ). Our Team of Doctors Our team includes neurointerventionalists, neurologists, neuroradiologists, neurosurgeons, vascular neurologists, vascular and endovascular surgeons, and rehabilitation doctors. Howard A. Riina Center Director Koto Ishida Center Medical Director Laura M. Ades Vascular Neurologist Harpaul S. Bhamra Neurointensivist Leah Dickstein Albert S. Favate Jennifer A. Frontera Brandon Giglio David Ethan Kahn Alexandra Kvernland Sok W. Lee Ariane Lewis KL Kaitlyn Lillemoe Kara R. Melmed Rajanandini Muralidharan PN Peter K. Nelson Neurointerventional Radiologist Erez Nossek Neurosurgeon Eytan Raz MD, PhD Husain M. Rizvi Sara K. Rostanski Caleb Rutledge Matthew D. Sanger Maksim Shapiro View All 27 Doctors & Schedule 27 Center for Stroke & Neurovascular Diseases at Tisch Hospital 530 First Avenue, New York, NY, 10016 Center for Stroke & Neurovascular Diseases at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11220 We have doctors throughout New York City and Long Island, as well as in Westchester County and Florida. To make an appointment, please call one of our cardiologists. , our cardiologists recognize that women’s heart health requires a unique approach. With heart disease as the leading cause of death in women, our dedicated specialists provide the tools you need to prevent heart disease, and the compassion and support you need to navigate diagnosis and treatment. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 2 hospital in the nation for cardiology and heart surgery. Women’s Heart Conditions We Treat Our cardiologists treat heart conditions that disproportionately affect women. We create a personalized care plan that may include medications and lifestyle changes such as incorporating heart healthy nutrition, exercise, and stress reduction into your daily routine for the following conditions: heart attack with no blockage , also known as myocardial infarction with nonobstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA), which is different from typical heart attack caused by severe blockage from cholesterol plaque chest pain or angina with no blockage , also known as ischemia (reduced blood flow), with no obstructive coronary arteries (INOCA); this condition can be caused by coronary microvascular dysfunction, or dysfunction of blood vessels feeding the heart that are too small to be seen on standard imaging tests, or coronary artery spasm, the sudden and temporary tightening of arteries that carry blood to the heart spontaneous coronary dissection (SCAD), a blood collection in a heart artery wall infection or inflammation of the blood vessels, which may temporarily block blood flow to the heart takotsubo syndrome (also known to some as broken heart syndrome), a sudden weakening of the heart muscle that arises with a mentally or physically stressful event such as the death of a loved one Our physicians also work with interventional cardiologists to manage blocked arteries caused by coronary artery disease cardiac surgeons for conditions such as aortic dissection , or a tear in the aorta, and specialists at the Heart Rhythm Center to manage AFib , or other irregular heartbeat disorders. We may refer you to doctors at our Heart Failure Advanced Care Center cardiomyopathy or diastolic heart failure (also known as heart failure with preserved ejection fraction), a condition in which the heart does not relax properly between beats and pumps out less blood. In addition, our cardiologists also work with our cardiac team at our Heart Valve Center to manage heart valve disorders. Providers at the and physiatrists specializing in cardiac rehabilitation services may also be a part of your care team. Our Expertise in Women’s Heart Health Our cardiologists have a deep understanding of your health needs and use the latest technology to ensure an accurate diagnosis. We listen to ensure you feel heard and understand that women who have coronary artery disease or are experiencing a heart attack may describe their symptoms—especially chest pain—differently from men . The same is true for women who are experiencing or other cardiovascular conditions. Advanced Diagnostic Tools In addition to taking a thorough medical and family history, our cardiologists use the latest diagnostic tools to determine the cause of your symptoms. If we suspect a blockage is not the problem, we may order a special provocation test that is available at only a handful of other medical centers in the United States. During this test, we may also check for coronary microvascular dysfunction. We may refer you to our cardiac imaging and testing services to assess the heart and blood vessels. Testing in our cardiac catheterization laboratory may help us to detect blocked arteries. Our women’s cardiology specialists are also exploring new ways to image the heart and blood vessels through our innovative clinical trials. We have discovered that women may benefit from several types of imaging to accurately diagnose their condition. Preventive Care in Women A heart-healthy lifestyle that prioritizes diet, exercise, stress management, and getting enough sleep is one of the most effective ways to prevent heart disease, and we partner with you to help you realize these goals. Certain women are at higher risk of heart disease. Risk factors include or a history of pre-eclampsia or gestational diabetes during . Our cardiologists may work with specialists at NYU Langone Heart’s Cardio-Obstetrics Program to manage heart health before, during, and after pregnancy. Hormonal changes that occur with menopause can also raise the risk of heart disease. If you are receiving cancer treatment, your risk for heart problems can increase. Our doctors may refer you to specialists in our Cardio-Oncology Program to support your cardiovascular health as you navigate cancer care. If you are at a high risk of developing a heart condition, we can refer you to our specialists at the Affiliated Programs and Centers Our specialists in women’s cardiology collaborate with a team of experts to manage your heart or vascular condition. Learn More About NYU Langone Heart Heart Rhythm Care Our cardiologists provide expert care for heart rhythm disorders such as atrial fibrillation. Learn More About Our Heart Rhythm Center Our experts use minimally invasive techniques to diagnose and treat blocked arteries. Learn More About Our Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory Heart Failure Care Cardiologists and surgeons at our Heart Failure Advanced Care Center specialize in diagnosing and managing heart failure. Learn More About Our Heart Failure Advanced Care Center Our interventional cardiologists and cardiac surgeons use transcatheter and minimally invasive techniques to repair and replace heart valves. Learn More About Our Heart Valve Center Adult Cardiac Surgery Our cardiac surgeons perform mitral valve replacement and repair, aortic valve replacement, and coronary artery bypass. Learn More About Adult Cardiac Surgery If you are receiving cancer treatment, our doctors may refer you to a cardio-oncologist to protect your heart health. Learn More About Our Cardio-Oncology Program At the Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, we provide focused, personalized care. Learn More About the Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease Our women’s cardiology specialists may work with experts at the center for women’s health to create tailored care plans. Learn More About the Joan H. Tisch Center tor Women’s Health We are located in Manhattan and Brooklyn. 212-263-0596 At NYU Langone’s Cranial Bypass Program, our neurosurgeons specialize in performing extracranial–intracranial bypass surgery—often called cranial bypass or cerebral bypass surgery—to improve blood flow to the brain and prevent strokes. Our highly skilled neurosurgeons have years of experience performing this surgical technique in both adults and children. During this procedure, a blood vessel located outside the skull that flows in the scalp is diverted and connected to a blood vessel in the brain. Rerouting blood flow to the brain provides additional flow that reduces stress on the body’s circulation and lessens the risk of stroke or bleeding inside the brain. Cranial bypass can often be a treatment option for people with moyamoya disease—a rare condition in which the internal carotid arteries that supply blood to the brain become narrowed, limiting blood flow. Our neurosurgeons perform cranial bypass surgery in both adults with moyamoya disease and children with moyamoya disease. Care for children is provided through During your first visit, our doctors review your symptoms, imaging studies such as CT and MRI scans, and other test results to assess the best treatment approach for your condition. For those patients who have had a previous stroke, we work with your stroke neurologist to determine if you are a candidate for the procedure. Surgery is performed at our world-class facilities within NYU Langone’s , which includes two floors dedicated to neurosurgical care, including seven operating rooms (ORs) and a neuro-intensive care unit dedicated to neurosurgical recovery. Our “smart” ORs are digitally integrated and are equipped with the most advanced technology to ensure superior neurosurgical outcomes. Continuing Medical Education for Clinicians Join our experts as they discuss diagnosis, treatment, and management of moyamoya disease in this virtual webinar. After surgery, you are cared for by our multidisciplinary neurocritical care and neurosurgery teams that specialize in caring for patients after brain surgery. Most people who have cranial bypass surgery will have significantly reduced their risk for further strokes, and no additional treatment is needed. If rehabilitation is needed to address the effects of previous strokes, the specialists at can develop a treatment plan to help. To learn more about the Cranial Bypass Program, please call Our Team of Experts Our highly skilled neurosurgeons have years of experience performing cranial bypass surgery procedure in both adults and children, and collaborate with stroke neurologists to create an individualized treatment plan. Program Director David H. Harter Pediatric Neurosurgeon Michael Basseyn Neurologist Matthew A. Bokhari Jose L. Torres Cen Zhang Yi Zhang Sunmi Kim Neuroanesthesiologist Jamie P. Levine Microsurgeon Athena M. Lolis Clinical Neurophysiologist Christina Morrison PhD Clinical Neuropsychologist View All 24 Doctors & 24 We have doctors located throughout Manhattan. To schedule an appointment, please call one of our doctors. At NYU Langone’s Pituitary Center, our experts are leaders in advanced treatment for people with all types of pituitary tumors and disorders. Our doctors treat more than 300 patients each year and care for those with rare and complex pituitary conditions, such as Cushing disease, acromegaly, prolactinoma, cranial pharyngioma, and Rathke cleft cyst. We routinely see patients who have already had surgery elsewhere or have been told by physicians at other centers that their condition cannot be treated. We are also recognized as a center of excellence for the treatment of pituitary disorders by the Pituitary Network Association. We bring together a team that includes neurosurgeons; endocrinologists; otolaryngologists, also known as ear, nose, and throat specialists; neuro-ophthalmologists; radiologists; and pathologists. Our team ensures that people with pituitary conditions get the most effective treatment, using the latest technology and tools. Advanced Care for Pituitary Disorders For most patients, our endocrinologists strive to treat the hormonal changes associated with pituitary diseases through medication management. If surgery is needed, our neurosurgeons use innovative technology to perform fully endoscopic surgery, a minimally invasive technique that helps ensure a rapid recovery. We also offer Gamma Knife radiosurgery to manage small pituitary tumors in people who cannot have surgery or to treat small portions of tumors that are not completely removed after surgery. Our operating rooms are digitally integrated and are equipped with the most advanced technology, including Surgical Theater, a three-dimensional platform for planning and performing surgery, and Brainlab, integrated software for surgical planning, surgical navigation, and data management. NYU Langone is also home to two intraoperative MRI machines, which allow our neurosurgeons to make real-time decisions based on imaging results during surgery and also enable our surgeons to more thoroughly remove pituitary tumors in less time. Advanced intraoperative imaging helps clarify the boundary between normal gland tissue and tumor, which not only improves rates of tumor removal but also reduces the risk of gland dysfunction after surgery. Leaders in Pituitary Disorders Research As leaders in pituitary disorders research, our neurosurgeons and endocrinologists collaborate with neuroradiologists to better refine imaging techniques to find and treat pituitary tumors. To detect microadenomas—tumors less than 1 centimeter in diameter—NYU Langone neuroradiologists have pioneered the use of 2 types of state-of-the-art MRI: golden-angle radial sparse parallel (GRASP) and constructive interference in steady state (CISS). Both GRASP and CISS MRI scans offer ultra-high-resolution images and allow our doctors to better detect small, hard-to-find microadenomas and successfully remove them using noninvasive surgical techniques. In addition, neuroradiologists and nuclear medicine physicians combine these MRI sequences with PET scans to find rare ectopic tumors in people who have acromegaly or Cushing disease. Our team also is proud to collaborate with the North American Skull Base Society to conduct research on improving surgical outcomes on a national level. In collaborating with other large academic centers throughout the country, we help to develop the standards for pituitary surgical excellence. Meet Our Doctors Our team includes neurosurgeons, endocrinologists, otolaryngologists, neuro-ophthalmologists, radiologists, and pathologists. Nidhi Agrawal Endocrinologist Girish M. Fatterpekar Neuroradiologist John G. Golfinos Douglas Kondziolka Richard A. Lebowitz Rhinologist Seth M. Lieberman Donato R. Pacione Dimitris G. Placantonakis Janet C. Rucker Neuro-Ophthalmologist Chandra Sen Matija Snuderl Anatomic Pathologist Christopher M. William Matthew G. Young David Zagzag 15 Affiliated Centers and Services Our highly experienced neurosurgeons are internationally recognized experts in treating complex conditions that affect the brain. Anterior Skull Base Surgery Center Our neurosurgeons and otolaryngologists partner to provide minimally invasive treatment for pituitary tumors. Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery We care for the full range of ear, nose, and throat ailments and complex head and neck conditions. A Complex Clinical Picture Reveals a Rare Pituitary Tumor Phone: 212-263-2607 Fax: 212-263-4061 Neuromodulation Technologies Neuromodulation is a technique that uses implanted devices and other means to modify the abnormal nervous system activity found in several neurological disorders. First introduced more than half a century ago, it is now a well-established technology that has changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. VIDEO: Neurosurgeon Dr. Alon Mogilner explains how NYU Langone experts use deep brain stimulation to offer relief to people experiencing severe symptoms of Parkinson’s disease. NYU Langone’s Center for Neuromodulation is one of the first centers in the country to provide a full spectrum of this type of therapy for patients with conditions that include: including Parkinson’s disease , essential tremor, dystonia, Tourette syndrome , torticollis, and spasticity chronic pain of the trunk and limbs resulting from failed back surgery syndrome , complex regional pain syndrome, and peripheral neuropathy facial pain headache and headache syndromes, including occipital neuralgia, migraine cluster headache trigeminal neuropathic pain , supraorbital and infraorbital neuralgia, posttraumatic headache, hemicrania continua, trigeminal autonomic cephalalgia, and post-craniotomy pain psychiatric disorders, including obsessive-compulsive disorder Our techniques include deep brain stimulation high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) , spinal cord stimulation, occipital nerve stimulation, peripheral neurostimulation, intrathecal pump implantation, as well as lesioning techniques such as radiofrequency rhizotomy, glycerol rhizotomy, and Our Team Our neurosurgeons are experts in neuromodulation and radiosurgery. Alon Mogilner Michael H. Pourfar View AllDoctors & Schedule Gamma Knife Radiosurgery At NYU Langone’s Center for Advanced Radiosurgery, our team of specialists use the Leksell Gamma Knife Icon™, the most technologically advanced robotic radiosurgical method available today, to treat patients who come to us from around the world. Conditions suitable for include brain metastases , cavernous malformations, chordomas and chondrosarcoma, , cranial nerve schwannomas, gliomas and other brain tumors, meningioma nasopharyngeal cancers obsessive–compulsive disorder , pineal region tumors, pituitary adenomas and craniopharyngiomas, and Our neurosurgeons and radiation oncologists are world-renowned leaders in the surgical and radiosurgical treatment of brain-related conditions. radiosurgery is performed by a team of highly specialized neurosurgeons, radiation oncologists, nurse practitioners, and radiation physicists. As leaders in the field, we are an internationally recognized center for training and research and we offer professional training courses in Gamma Knife radiosurgery. Clinical excellence and safety are our highest priorities. A major focus of our research is on clinical outcomes for patients with benign or malignant brain tumors, as well as the development of novel imaging strategies to evaluate radiosurgery outcomes. NYU Langone experts have co-developed and installed the first comprehensive prospective patient registry for radiosurgery outcomes research. Read more about Gamma Knife radiosurgery at NYU Langone in our patient guide Our radiosurgery team is made up of neurosurgeons, radiation oncologists, and medical physicists. Joshua S. Silverman Radiation Oncologist Michael L. Smith Spine Surgeon Additional Information Refer a Patient If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please call What to Bring to Your Appointment Please bring copies of previous X-rays, CT scans, and MRI scans for your surgeon to review. Our international patient services team can help you schedule appointments and coordinate your care. Learn More About Our International Patient Services We have multiple locations in Manhattan. View All Locations (4) 646-501-7200 Experts at the Endoscopic Spine Surgery Program, a part of NYU Langone’s , offer a groundbreaking approach to care of the neck and lower back. Using an endoscope—a narrow tube with a light and high-definition camera on the end—our surgeons can see the inside of the body on a screen in real time, which helps them perform highly precise spine surgery. This ultra-minimally invasive approach requires only one or two small incisions. Your Spine: An Operator’s Manual Everything you need to know about staying nimble and pain-free from our top-ranked spine experts. View the Book The Benefits of Endoscopic Spine Surgery Endoscopic spine surgery allows our surgeons to protect the surrounding tissues and structures of the spine. The surgery is safe and effective, restoring function and relieving pain from conditions such as degenerative disc disease herniated disc This type of surgery is similar to knee or shoulder arthroscopy. It is typically done on an outpatient basis, meaning you can go home the same day. Recovery time, ranging from one to two weeks, is faster than with open surgery, and you can quickly return to your daily activities, improving your quality of life. Our Surgical Expertise Our knowledge of the latest endoscopic treatments reflects NYU Langone’s excellence and innovation in spine surgery. While most endoscopic spine surgeries use a single incision, several of our surgeons specialize in a more advanced procedure—biportal endoscopic surgery—which uses two tiny incisions, less than one centimeter long. This procedure is only available at a few other medical centers in the United States. Biportal endoscopic surgery allows surgeons to use one incision for the endoscope and the other for the surgical instruments. This two-portal approach further improves surgical precision and protects the spine and surrounding tissues. Our Supportive, Team-Based Approach to Care In addition to our surgical expertise, our team of specialists provides you with the support you need as you make important treatment decisions about your spine health. Orthopedic and neurosurgery spine surgeons, rehabilitation doctors, pain management physicians, neurologists, advanced practice providers, and registered nurses work together to listen to your concerns and provide you with personalized care before, during, and after spine surgery. Physical and occupational therapists may also be a part of the care plan. Spine Conditions We Treat Our doctors can help determine whether you are a candidate for endoscopic spine surgery. We typically use this surgery to treat conditions of the lower back or lumbar spine, including these: spinal stenosis radiculopathy, which is pinching of the nerve near the root sciatica, or injury of the sciatic nerve that originates in the lower spine We may also use endoscopic spine surgery for conditions in the neck or cervical spine, such as disc degeneration, spinal stenosis, or a herniated disc. Endoscopic Spine Surgeries We Perform Our doctors may recommend one of the following surgeries as part of your spine care plan: endoscopic microdiscectomy: removes a piece of herniated disc or can relieve pain caused by radiculopathy or sciatica endoscopic laminectomy or decompression: removes a portion of the lamina, which is the bony arch of the vertebra, to treat spinal stenosis endoscopic fusion: connects bones of the spine to stabilize it to treat spondylolisthesis, severe disc degeneration, or herniated disc Our endoscopic spine surgery program leads the way in creating treatment guidelines that ensure the safe and responsible use of new endoscopic techniques for spine surgery. This work enables us to provide the highest quality of care and the best possible outcomes for our patients. Endoscopic spine surgeons, neurologists, pain management specialists, and rehabilitation doctors are part of your care team. Charla R. Fischer Program Co-Director, Orthopedic Spine Surgeon Yong H. Kim Steven Calvino Pain Management Doctor Tracy Espiritu McKay D.O. Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Specialist Anthony K. Frempong-Boadu Christopher G. Gharibo Paul S. Ji EK Erick R. Kazarian Charles Kim Kiril Kiprovski Neuromuscular Specialist Ilya Laufer John J. Michalisin Jr. Themistocles Protopsaltis Surein Theivakumar Shengping Zou 16 Orthopedic Surgery We work with doctors in orthopedic surgery to provide you with advanced spine care. Your spine care team may include experts in neurosurgery. Center for the Study and Treatment of Pain We work closely with NYU Langone pain medicine specialists, who can prescribe pain medication or other nonsurgical therapies. Physical and occupational therapists at Rusk Rehabilitation may be part of the recovery process. Our Locations (4) NYU Langone Orthopedic Center 333 East 38th Street, New York, NY, 10016 646-501-7070 NYU Langone Madison Avenue Orthopedics 145 East 32nd Street, New York, NY, 10016 212-427-3986 NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Center East 38th Street 240 East 38th Street, New York, NY, 10016 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Flushing 41-61 Kissena Boulevard, Flushing, NY, 11355 718-353-7900 Endoscopic Spine Surgery Reduces Need for Post-Op Pain Medication A New Spinal Fusion Technique Is Music to a Composer’s Ears We have doctors in Manhattan and Brooklyn, and on Long Island. 844-698-2224 Nonsurgical Spine Treatment Options Spine Surgery Spine Center Patient Stories Highly Experienced Surgical Team Our neurosurgeons and orthopedic surgeons perform more than 4,700 spine procedures each year. We’re ranked among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for neurosurgery and orthopedics by Using Technology to Improve Care We use the most advanced navigation and surgical technologies available to precisely remove spine tumors. Experts at NYU Langone’s Spine Center understand that can disrupt your entire life. It’s why more than 25,000 adults and children come to us each year for nonsurgical and surgical treatment of degenerative spine conditions such as , and spinal deformities including scoliosis and kyphosis Our specialists care for people with a broad range of spinal conditions. Our experts use a collaborative approach to patient care. Our internationally known surgeons perform more than 4,700 procedures each year, but our team takes a conservative approach to every person’s care. A Collaborative Approach to Care During your first visit or phone call, you speak with one of our nurses, who determines what kind of doctor can best help you. Many people first meet with one of our rehabilitation medicine doctors, or physiatrists, to discuss such as physical therapy. If is recommended, our experienced orthopedic surgeons and neurosurgeons collaborate to create the best treatment plan for you. They often work together during the surgery itself, which gives you the expertise of both specialties. We also offer innovative approaches to care such as minimally invasive procedures through our “My doctor cares about me and my recovery. He knew playing music again was important to me, and it was a focus in my follow-up appointments.” Christos, 46 Read All Spine Center Patient Stories Our Spine Center team also works closely with neurologists and rehabilitation medicine specialists who use nonsurgical approaches, including strengthening exercises, stretching, manual tissue manipulation, and pain medication, to treat spine conditions. Our orthopedic surgeons at the Spine Center, including Dr. Themistocles Protopsaltis, work closely with neurosurgeons to develop a treatment plan for patients. If you have been diagnosed with a spinal tumor , we work with medical oncologists and radiation oncologists to manage the tumor based on its location on the spine. This may involve surgery or, after initial treatment, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or both. Leaders in Imaging, Safety, and Precision Spine Center experts work closely with radiologists at our many convenient locations to make sure you receive the most accurate diagnosis. Our imaging technology is the most advanced available and includes digital , uni- and biportal endoscopy, , myelography, MRI , and EOS imaging, which produces highly detailed three-dimensional images while delivering a significantly lower dose of radiation. We can often provide same-day diagnostic imaging. Everything to Know About Injections for Neck & Back Pain AAOS 2024: NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgeons Present Research Our neurosurgeons and orthopedic surgeons have also developed some of the most advanced technologies to increase accuracy and safety. During all spinal procedures, our teams use technology such as spinal navigation, three-dimensional fluoroscopy, diffusion tensor imaging, intraoperative CT scanning with BrainLab three-dimensional navigation, and intraoperative MRI. We also use Surgical Theater virtual reality machines—a three-dimensional platform for planning and performing surgery. These advanced devices and techniques provide surgeons with real-time or three-dimensional images that enable the highest degree of precision. Our operating rooms are equipped with ExcelsiusGPS, a robotic system that provides highly accurate guidance and navigation during surgery, reducing muscle damage and recovery time. Our skilled physicians offer personalized care to people with all types of conditions affecting the spine. Center Co-Director Erich G. Anderer John A. Bendo David Chen Joseph W. Dryer Jeffrey A. Goldstein Qusai Hammouri Kola Jegede Richard W. Johnson Darryl Lau Ricky Madhok Shyam A. Patel Jeffrey Perry Anthony M. Petrizzo Salvador E. Portugal MBA, D.O. View All 30 Doctors & 30 Related Programs Our neurosurgeons specialize in treating spinal tumors and degenerative diseases of the spine, as well as scoliosis and spinal trauma. Our orthopedic surgeons specialize in spine surgeries for degenerative conditions, scoliosis, sports injuries, and traumatic injuries. We work closely with pain experts to provide you with nonsurgical therapies and pain medication. We maximize your physical recovery and rehabilitation with treatments that also address your personal needs. Our medical and radiation oncologists specialize in treating tumors of the spine. Our pediatric experts provide top care for children with conditions ranging from minor illnesses to more complex ones. 212-263-5732 Treatments At NYU Langone’s Peripheral Nerve Center, we provide surgical care to people with degenerative diseases, tumors, and other conditions and injuries affecting the nervous system. But surgery is just one part of what we do. At your first appointment, one of our specialists performs a thorough exam. We also discuss your treatment goals and expectations regarding recovery from surgery. We take into consideration your desired outcome when determining the treatment approach that is best for you. Our doctors treat people with peripheral nerve conditions related to entrapment, contraction, injury, and tumors. We perform conventional open surgery as well as minimally invasive procedures. During surgery, our intraoperative monitoring team enhances accuracy and safety by monitoring your motor skills and your body’s reaction to touch, pressure, and pain. We also use electromyography to check muscle and nerve health. If you have neurofibromatosis type 1 or neurofibromatosis type 2 , which are conditions that cause tumors to grow on the spine and nerves, we work closely with the neurologists, oncologists, and otolaryngologists—also known as ear, nose, and throat doctors—at NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Center Neurosurgeons at the Peripheral Nerve Center are supported by a team of physician assistants and neurosurgical nurses who monitor you closely, starting before surgery and through your recovery. Our , including meditation and acupuncture, can help you cope with stress or anxiety before and after your treatment. Within a day of the procedure, you are evaluated by a physical therapist from NYU Langone’s . This specialist determines the type of rehabilitation therapy you require, if any, and if it should be completed on an inpatient or outpatient basis. Our team of neurosurgeons meets weekly to discuss our patients. So, although you are cared for by one doctor, you benefit from the collective expertise of a group of neurosurgeons who collaborate to make the best decisions about your care. Our neurosurgeons specialize in surgery of the peripheral nervous system. Our Affiliated Programs NYU Langone neurosurgeons are sought by patients around the world for their skill and expertise. We are leaders in the treatment of neurofibromatosis type 1, neurofibromatosis type 2, and schwannomatosis. Our neuro-oncologists provide comprehensive care for people with cancer of the spine and nervous system. When you come to NYU Langone for treatment of a neurological condition that might require surgery, you may have had one or more of the following diagnostic tests so that doctors can pinpoint the cause of your condition and develop effective treatment strategies. As a new patient, please bring copies of any previous test results for your surgeon to review. Cerebral Angiogram Some diseases, such aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, and vasculitis , affect the blood vessels of the brain. A cerebral angiogram is the gold standard for assessing these conditions. This test involves injecting dye into the blood vessels of the brain and then taking X-rays of these vessels. The patient lies flat on a table and a catheter is inserted into an artery in the groin. The catheter is then passed through the arterial system to the head, where the dye can be injected. This is typically a painless procedure. CT Myelogram Some patients with implanted metal devices cannot undergo MRI scanning. In order to assess the spinal cord in these patients, a special type of CT called a CT myelogram can be done. In this test, contrast dye is not injected into the blood, but rather into the cerebrospinal fluid that coats our brain and spinal cord. This injection is done by means of a spinal tap or lumbar tap. Local anesthetic is given prior to the needle being placed in the lower back. CT scans allow surgeons to pinpoint the location of lesions in the brain or spinal cord. It is particularly useful in determining if there is bleeding in the brain, or bony destruction in the spinal column. For this test, you are asked to lie on a comfortable, open-air table while a series of special X-rays are taken. A simple head CT can take less than 30 seconds. Scans of other body parts may take up to 30 minutes. Some tests require that intravenous contrast dye be administered. People with kidney problems, allergies to shellfish, or previous reactions to contrast dye should make certain that their physician is aware of these conditions prior to receiving contrast dye. Nerve Conduction Studies If a person has weakness or twitching in a muscle, an electromyogram, or nerve conduction study, can help to distinguish between problems in muscles, in the nerves that support the muscles, or in the spinal cord itself. A sterile needle is placed into the muscle. From the needle, small electrical signals are recorded when the muscle is contracted and when it is relaxed. This process is repeated for each muscle to be tested. This is similar to acupuncture. Nerve Conduction Velocity Nerve conduction velocity tests assess peripheral nerves. Peripheral nerves connect the spinal cord with the muscles. Electrodes are placed over the nerve to be assessed as well as the muscles it stimulates. Small electric shocks are applied at one electrode. Physicians use the time it takes for these electrical pulses to reach the other electrode to determine if a disease of the peripheral nerves is the cause of pain, weakness, or numbness in the muscle. Lumbar Puncture Cerebrospinal fluid bathes and protects our brain and spinal cord. Examining this fluid can be important in determining if an infection or tumor has spread to this part of the body. The fluid is obtained by a lumbar puncture or spinal tap. The patient is placed on his or her side with the knees tucked to the chest in a fetal position. An area in the middle of the low back is numbed with local anesthetic. A needle is then inserted and fluid removed. The procedure generally takes less than a minute or two. In experienced hands, this procedure is minimally painful. While a CT scan is particularly useful for assessing bony anatomy, MRI is best for imaging soft tissues, such as the brain and spinal cord. The MRI works by assessing the alignment of hydrogen atom nuclei in a very powerful magnetic field. The use of a magnet rather than ionizing radiation is another advantage of MRI over CT. However, because of this magnet, people with heart pacemakers and some other implantable devices cannot undergo MRI testing. Additionally, some patients will find that the longer testing period of MRI, sometimes up to one hour, in a small confined space can induce feelings of claustrophobia and anxiety. Patients who are at risk for such feelings can be given appropriate sedating medication prior to the procedure. Neurological Examination The neurological examination is divided into five parts: mental status, cranial nerves, motor function, sensory function, and reflexes. In the mental status exam, you are asked questions designed to assess your level of alertness, orientation, mood, and cognition. The simplest form of this test requires that you state your name, where you are, and the month, year, and date. You may also be asked to follow commands, such as “Touch your right ear with your left index finger,” solve simple arithmetic problems, repeat a phrase, name an object and what it is used for, or write your name. Cranial nerves are responsible for strength and sensation in the head. Special senses, including vision, hearing, smell, and taste, are part of these tests. A light is shone in your eyes to assess pupil reactivity. Your peripheral vision or visual fields as well as visual acuity are assessed. Eye movements are assessed by having you follow the examiner's moving finger without turning your head. Facial muscles are tested by having you close your eyes tightly, raise your eyebrows, and smile widely. You are also asked to stick out your tongue, shrug your shoulders, and turn your head from side to side as part of the cranial nerve test. The motor function examination tests muscle strength. Individual muscles in both the upper and lower extremities on both sides are tested. Motor assessment will often start with the drift test. You will be asked to place your arms outstretched in front of you with your palms facing upward. You will then be told to close your eyes and count to 10 out loud without moving your outstretched arms. This test can often detect subtle weakness on one side of the body. The remainder of motor function testing is completed by having you bend or straighten a joint, such as the elbow, against resistance provided by the examiner. For example, in order to test the triceps muscle in the back of the arm, you will be told to keep your arm straight at the elbow while the examiner attempts to bend it. The sensory function examination tests your sense of touch. You are told to keep your eyes closed while the examiner lightly touches your skin with a safety pin. You are asked whether the sharp or dull end of the pin touched your skin. This can detect lesions in the spinal cord. Another important part of the sensory exam is assessment of proprioception, a measure of how well you can sense your body’s position and movements. Again with your eyes closed, your toe or your finger will be moved either up or down. You will then state which direction your finger was moved in. This ability to determine the relative position of body parts—without looking—can be compromised by certain neurological conditions. To test reflexes, a small rubber hammer is used to check response at the knee, elbow, wrist, and ankle. These reflexes may be exaggerated or absent in certain pathological conditions. Additionally, the bottom of the foot or the fingernail of the middle finger may be stroked to elicit certain abnormal reflexes. Depending on the suspected neurological condition, the examiner may do other tests as well. For example, the examiner may wish to observe you walking or have you slide the heel of one foot up and down the shin of the opposite leg. Shunt Series and Shuntogram A common neurosurgical operation involves the diversion of excess cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from the brain. Most commonly, a tube called a shunt is tunneled under the skin from the brain to the abdomen. This implantable device generally stays in place for life. Problems with the shunt, including infection, obstruction, or disruption of the tubing, are occasionally encountered. Workup for a shunt problem includes several tests. A CT scan tells doctors how much CSF is in the brain. Excessive CSF can mean that the shunt is not working properly. A shunt series is a simple set of X-rays of the skull, chest, and abdomen that can reveal a break in the tubing. A shuntogram is a more sophisticated study that involves placing a radioactive isotope in the shunt reservoir in the head and measuring the speed with which it moves to the abdomen. Delayed movement of CSF to the abdomen may imply a problem with the shunt. Lastly, a shunt infection may be assessed by sterilely removing some spinal fluid from the shunt reservoir and sending it to the microbiology lab for culture. Swallow Study Certain neurological conditions can impair a person’s ability to swallow. If there is some question as to whether you can safely be allowed to eat, a swallow study can be done. This involves taking X-rays while you eat food and liquids mixed with barium. This test is done under the supervision of a speech pathologist who determines how well you are able to swallow foods of various consistencies. Simple X-rays are often useful in assessing the bones of the skull and spine. X-rays of the spine can be used to evaluate fractures or misalignment. X-rays are also particularly useful in determining the stability of the spine. This is achieved by taking X-rays of the cervical or lumbar spine both in flexion, bent forward at the neck or hips, and extension, straightened at the neck or hips. The surgeon or radiologist looks for abnormal movement of the bones of the spine on these dynamic images. 317 East 34th Street, 8th Floor 855-698-9998 Transplant Institute Heart Transplant Program Kidney Transplant Program Living Kidney Donation Pancreas Transplant Program Pediatric Transplant Surgery Transplant Institute Patient Stories Top Program in New York We are the premier transplant center in New York, performing one of the highest volumes of transplants with top quality outcomes. Fastest Transplant Rates in New York People needing heart or lung transplants spend less time on the waitlist than those at any other hospital in the state. Best Survival Rates Our heart and lung transplant one-year survival rates are the highest in New York State. Specialists at the NYU Langone Transplant Institute provide our patients with exceptional care that incorporates the latest technological advancements in lung pancreas transplantation. We are also among the few hospitals that perform heart–lung, heart–kidney, liver–kidney, kidney–pancreas, and liver–lung transplants. Our facilities include modern testing sites and dedicated inpatient surgical and intensive care units, as well as a multidisciplinary outpatient transplant clinic. Top Lung Transplant Center in the United States Why has the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients named NYU Langone the top lung transplant center in the nation? High volume, the state’s shortest waitlist time, a low waitlist mortality rate, and a one-year survival rate of 94.19 percent. We provide kidney transplants, liver transplants, lung transplants, and heart transplants for children through Support the Transplant Institute Make a monetary donation to the NYU Langone Transplant Institute to support our lifesaving work. In 2023, we performed 576 organ transplants. Our heart, kidney, liver, lung, and pancreas transplant programs are approved by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), which means they have met the stringent volume, process, quality, and survival outcome requirements of CMS regulation. Dr. Luis F. Angel and Dr. Melissa B. Lesko are part of the lung transplantation team. Leader in Organ Transplantation Under the leadership of , director of the Transplant Institute, we are are the nation’s premier program for heart, kidney, liver, and lung transplant, as evidenced by data published by the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients (SRTR) , which tracks epidemiological data and statistics related to solid-organ transplant in the United States. According to SRTR data, our institute has achieved the following milestones: Heart transplant : We are one of the top heart transplant centers in the country, with the fastest transplant rate in the Northeast and highest one-year survival rate in New York State. Kidney transplant : We are the number one program in the country. Our exceptional survival rates, fast transplant rates, and high volume—the three most important SRTR calculations—make us a top transplant center in the country. In addition, we are the only program in the country performing more than 250 kidney transplants each year to receive SRTR’s highest marks—a score of 5 out of 5—both for one-year organ survival and for getting a kidney from a deceased donor faster. Liver transplant : We are the number one program in New York State. We have  a 100 percent one-year survival rate for people who receive a liver from a living donor. : We are the No. 1 program in New York State. Our excellent 94.19 percent one-year survival rate after transplantation—combined with getting a transplant faster, low mortality on the transplant list, and high volume of transplants—makes us the top-ranked lung transplant center in the country. These achievements demonstrate our ability to provide transplant as a treatment for people with the most complex diagnoses. Leaders in Transplant Procedures As leaders in the field, our physicians are committed to developing new treatment strategies in transplantation medicine. We are at the forefront of clinical research . We focus on creating innovative techniques to care for people who have life-threatening heart, liver, lung, kidney, or pancreas disease. Transplant Referrals at NYU Langone App Medical professionals seeking to refer a patient can contact doctors at our Transplant Institute using our app: Transplant Referrals at NYU Langone. Download the app from the App Store or Google Play. We offer expertise in the following types of transplants: living donor transplant, in which an organ such as a portion of the liver is donated by a healthy person paired kidney transplant, in which donor and recipient pairs team up to achieve compatible kidneys for each recipient ABO (also known as blood type)- and HLA (human leukocyte antigen)-incompatible transplant, in which treatment before a transplant allows recipients to accept organs from incompatible donors Additionally, NYU Langone experts are pioneers in the field of face transplant: Specialists in the performed the most extensive face transplant to date and the first in New York State . They also performed  the world’s first successful face and bilateral hand transplant. NYU Langone is among the few institutions in the United States that offers pulmonary thromboendarterectomy, the recommended treatment for a specific type of pulmonary hypertension called chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. A Team Approach to Transplant Care Our team includes surgeons and physicians who specialize in hepatology, nephrology, cardiology, endocrinology, infectious diseases, pulmonology, psychiatry, radiology, and rehabilitation. Our nurse coordinators receive specialized training in transplantation, and our fellows are part of a program accredited by the American Society of Transplant Surgeons. We also have dedicated social workers, pharmacists, nutritionists, and financial coordinators to help guide you and your family through the complex and nuanced transplant process. VIDEO: Heart and kidney transplant recipient Nancy shares her experience at the NYU Langone Transplant Institute. This team approach to transplant care reflects our center’s unwavering dedication to personalized and comprehensive medical care. We recognize that each patient has unique transplant needs. Our physicians and support staff collaborate to ensure that our patients get the specialized care that they deserve. Preventing and Managing Infectious Diseases NYU Langone infectious diseases experts provide comprehensive care for Transplant Institute patients throughout their transplant journey. In collaboration with our heart, kidney, liver, lung, and pancreas transplant experts and specialists at the Blood and Marrow Transplant Program , they work to reduce the risk of infection and provide the best treatment when it does occur. Services include the following: screening for and evaluation of preexisting infections before transplant administering preventive antibiotics and other measures to reduce risk of infection around the time of transplant diagnosing and treating infection after transplant, when necessary Our infectious diseases team also leads NYU Langone’s participation in the HOPE in Action study, through which people who are HIV-positive and need liver or kidney transplants can safely receive organs from deceased donors who were also HIV-positive. The HOPE in Action study may help reduce the amount of time people who are HIV-positive wait for an organ transplant. NYU Langone Transplant Institute also offers a program for directed or anonymous HIV-positive living kidney donations. Our infectious diseases team is led by Sapna Mehta, MD , who is the medical director and clinical director of the Transplant Institute; Henry J. Neumann, MD ; Fainareti Zervou, MD Virginie S. Halpern-Cohen, MD ; and Matthew C. Ringer, MD . Our pediatric transplant infectious disease team is led by Rebecca Pellet Madan, MD , who is the medical director for the pediatric transplant program and Stephanie P. Ungar, MD Become an Organ or Tissue Donor The need for donated organs and tissue far outstrips the available supply. The NYU Langone Transplant Institute team is working to increase the number of available organs and tissue and save lives. If you live in New York State, register to become an organ and tissue donor 317 East 34th Street, 8th Floor, New York, NY, 10016 A Pioneering Transplant Surgeon Tackles the Organ Shortage Dr. Robert Montgomery Receives Jacobson Innovation Award Kidney Buddies: Dad Gives Son a Life-Saving Kidney Studies Show Cell Changes in Pig Heart & Kidney Transplants The Kidney Voucher Program That Saved a Man’s Life Heart Pump & Pig Kidney Transplant Gives New Hope to Patient NYU Langone Has Top Kidney, Lung Transplant Programs in U.S. NYU Langone Health offers a variety of procurement opportunities for vendors and suppliers to participate in projects across the medical center. Interested firms should check back regularly for updated information. Real Estate, Development, Facilities, and Construction Vendors Real estate and construction vendors can learn more about NYU Langone’s procurement opportunities for various construction projects, consulting, and allied goods and services, and read our design guidelines for project managers, architects, and engineering teams. This includes but is not limited to projects required to rebuild our physical facilities after Superstorm Sandy. Supply Chain Vendors and Service Suppliers Prospective and current suppliers can learn more about engaging with NYU Langone to provide supplies, services, and other activities . This includes necessary details about doing business with NYU Langone and our affiliated entities, such as terms and conditions, purchase order and payment policies and practices, as well as expectations for compliance and conduct. Suppliers with an established relationship with NYU Langone can learn more about practical information for successfully managing business activities, as well as guidance on how to access our self-service and support resources. Compliance NYU Langone Health requires that all of its vendors and contractors to abide by the NYU Langone Health compliance program and to ensure compliance with federal, state, and local regulations. As such, vendors and contractors are expected to be aware of and act in accordance with the and the following policies and procedures: Acceptance and/or Solicitation of Gifts and Benefits from Vendors, Patients, and Other Third Parties Complaints, No Retaliation, No Waiver of Rights Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation General Uses and Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses & Disclosures of PHI Mitigation of HIPAA Related Incidents Photography Policy Preventing Fraud, Waste, & Abuse Prohibition Against Employing or Contracting with Ineligible Persons and Exclusion Screening Responding to Governmental Investigations and Law Enforcement Requests Safeguarding PHI Vendors can find additional information about the NYU Langone Health compliance program and its privacy and compliance policies on the pages. Questions can be directed to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management at 212-404-4079 or at ComplianceHelp@NYULangone.org Environmental Health & Safety Policies for Vendors Information for Prospective & Existing Suppliers 833-344-3278 Cardiac experts at the Heart Transplant Program, a part of the , provide the highest standard of care for people who need heart transplants. We offer in-person appointments to evaluate people for heart transplant, left ventricle assist device (LVAD), total artificial heart, and heart failure. For an appointment, please call 833-34-HEART (833-344-3278). We are one of the top heart transplant programs in the country, as evidenced by data published by the . Additionally, we care for patients with the most complex diagnoses and those who have been told by other programs that they were not a candidate for transplant. We are a national leader in the transplantation of sensitized patients with high levels of antibodies, which prevents them from receiving a transplant at most centers. Our innovative surgical approach, the experience of our transplant team, and our surgical facilities in , one of the most digitally advanced hospitals in the country, contribute to our success. VIDEO: Phyllis Weissblum was deemed too old for a heart transplant. But NYU Langone doctors took on her case, found a donor heart in just two days—and restored her to good health. From your initial evaluation through post-transplant checkups, our skilled, compassionate team works with you and your family to ensure the best possible outcomes at every step of your journey. We offer all treatments and therapies related to heart transplant, including pretransplant care for heart failure, transplant evaluations, bridge to transplant therapies, and post-transplant appointments. Our doctors are available in Manhattan and on Long Island, so you can receive care at a location that is convenient for you. Fastest Transplant Rate in the Northeast We provide rapid medical evaluation to determine whether a transplant is right for you. Here are some of the most important ways in which our program stands out: Support the Heart Transplant Program Make a monetary donation to support our work in heart transplantation. Our heart program continues to have the highest patient survival in the nation amongst programs who performed more than 35 transplants a year, and the best one-year patient survival in New York State. Additionally, the heart program also has the fastest transplant rate in the Northeast. In 2023, our heart transplant program performed the highest number of heart transplants in the Northeast. Nader Moazami, MD , surgical director of heart transplantation, brings more than two decades of experience to the NYU Langone Transplant Institute. He has performed more than 1,000 heart transplants. When a Heart Transplant Is Needed People who are candidates for a heart transplant typically have heart failure, and other treatments for it have been unsuccessful. They may experience shortness of breath during very light levels of activity or have severe and frequent chest pain. Doctors at our can help you explore all your treatment options. Some of the most common causes of heart failure include the following conditions: (genetic, hypertrophic, idiopathic, infectious, postpregnancy, postviral, or restrictive) congenital heart defects heart damage caused by a heart attack First, your doctor explores all nontransplant treatment options for heart failure. If those methods are unsuccessful, your doctor may refer you to the NYU Langone Transplant Institute, or you may call us directly to schedule an appointment. Our doctors review your medical records and sometimes order additional cardiac tests, such as right and left heart catheterization, an echocardiogram, or a cardiopulmonary exercise stress test. After any preliminary tests are complete, a doctor meets with you to discuss your medical history and conduct a complete physical exam. If the doctor determines that you’re a suitable candidate for transplant evaluation testing, the transplant nurse coordinator schedules additional tests that begin approximately two weeks after your first visit. In addition to our transplant care for adults, we also care for children through the Pediatric Heart Failure and Transplant Program Heart Transplant Evaluation When you come to NYU Langone for heart transplant evaluation, our team conducts several different types of tests: lab tests not conducted during your first visit a pulmonary function test tests to check for blockages in the carotid arteries in your neck a test to measure blood flow in the veins and arteries of your legs During the evaluation, you also meet with our heart transplant cardiologist and surgeon, as well as a transplant nurse coordinator, dietitian, financial coordinator, pharmacist, and social worker. Throughout this process, our team evaluates whether a heart transplant is the best option for you, and keeps you and your family up to date so that you can make an informed decision. We conduct heart transplant evaluations and provide pre- and post-transplant outpatient care at our Manhattan location and on Long Island at NYU Langone Cardiology Associates—Mineola and in partnership with the Heart Success program at Morristown Medical Center, part of the Atlantic Health System. Bridge to Transplant Therapies For some people, a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) or a total artificial heart can help maintain or improve your overall health while you wait for a donor heart. These “bridge to transplant” therapies are provided by our transplant surgeons and doctors from NYU Langone’s Heart Failure Advanced Care Center. Left Ventricular Assist Device Before a transplant, our cardiac experts may recommend that you receive an LVAD, a small electric pump that is connected to your heart to help it pump blood. If you are considered ineligible for a heart transplant, our team may recommend using an LVAD as a destination, or lifelong, therapy. The process to qualify for destination therapy is similar to the evaluation process for a heart transplant. Total Artificial Heart A total artificial heart can be another treatment option for people with advanced heart failure. Unlike an LVAD, which supports only the heart’s left ventricle, a total artificial heart replaces both ventricles and takes over all the work of pumping blood to the lungs and then out to the body. The device is connected to a portable external console, which can be used outside of the hospital. Heart Transplant Candidacy If our team determines that a heart transplant is the best treatment option for you, we help you prepare for candidacy. Our transplant nurse coordinator places you on the United Network of Organ Sharing (UNOS) national waiting list. You are then assigned a heart transplant status, which is based on how urgently you need a heart. After you have been placed on the waiting list for a donor heart, you need to be prepared for surgery whenever a heart becomes available. The wait time for a heart varies and depends on your blood type, body size, medical urgency, and other factors. When a suitable heart becomes available, you are admitted to the hospital if you have been waiting at home and prepared for heart transplant surgery. After Heart Transplant Surgery In the months after your transplant, you have frequent checkups with our team. At these checkups, our experts make sure you are doing well, adjust your medications as needed, and monitor you for infections or other complications. After your transplant, you also have heart biopsies—more frequent in the beginning and then gradually less often—so that our team can make sure your new heart is not being rejected. Our team is dedicated to your success and support after your heart transplant. Your care team continues to see you regularly after surgery for as long as needed. Our doctors are leaders in the field of heart transplantation. Nader Moazami Heart Transplant Surgical Director Alex Reyentovich Heart Transplant Medical Director AA Amit H. Alam Heart Failure Doctor Jose A. Alvarez-Cardona Michael Divita Randal I. Goldberg Marlena Habal Carine Hamo Bernard S. Kadosh Danyaal S. Moin Shaline D. Rao Tajinderpal Saraon T.K. Susheel Kumar Pediatric & Adult Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgeon 13 Our Heart Transplant Program is part of one of the country’s leading organ transplant centers. Our heart transplantation specialists work with a team of cardiologists to manage your heart health. Heart Failure Advance Care Center Experts at our Heart Failure Advance Care Center can help explore when a heart transplant is needed. We offer care for children who have heart failure and may need a heart transplant. Lupus Study Shows Who Should Monitor Fetal Heart Rate Enzyme Impairment May Enable Pathogenesis of Lupus Nephritis New Trials Assess Lupus Risk Across the Life Span Study Finds Low Risk Stopping HCQ in Older Lupus Patients Gut Microbes May Drive Lupus Why Lupus Hits Some Harder Than Others NIH Grant Drives New Research in Lupus Risk Factors & Flares Delivering Safer Pregnancies for Women with Lupus Pregnancy Safe for Women with Lupus At NYU Langone, volunteers provide essential social support to our patients, their families, and other visitors. Whether you’re interested in greeting and directing visitors or assisting with various other tasks, NYU Langone’s Volunteer Services can match you with the right opportunity. Volunteer opportunities are available at the following locations throughout NYU Langone: , all located on First Avenue in Manhattan many outpatient locations Traditional volunteer positions do not involve providing or assisting in medical treatment. Opportunities to observe doctors and other providers are not available. For more information about externships, internships, and research opportunities, please contact the Nontraditional Volunteer Department within NYU Langone Human Resources at HRNTV@NYULangone.org 212-404-4170 Application Process The application process can take four to eight weeks to complete. Please start by filling out an application . We review all applications, but only contact applicants whose interests and availabilities best match our needs. Interview requests are sent to your email address. More information is available on our application page Age Requirements and Time Commitment Volunteers must be at least 16 years old to participate in our Junior Volunteer programs. All other volunteers must be at least 18 years old. Individuals under the age of eighteen (18) years old must obtain parent/guardian consent to volunteer. Valid state issued “Working Papers” are required for all volunteers under the age of eighteen (18) years old. NYU Langone volunteers commit to a single four-hour shift per week, for a minimum of nine consecutive months. As a general rule, hospital volunteers are required to maintain a regular schedule, working on the same day, at the same time, every week. By the end, volunteers contribute at least 150 hours of service. Summer Volunteers Summer volunteer opportunities are available to applicants age 16 and older who can dedicate 120 service hours over the summer months. Weekly shifts and time commitments vary between sites. For more detailed information specific to each program, please visit the Volunteer Services application page Placements are based on needs within NYU Langone and the availability of the volunteer. Orientations and interviews for summer volunteers are scheduled on a first-come, first-served basis until all available positions are filled. Applications must be received by the site-specific deadline below for placement in that year’s upcoming summer program. Application submission periods are as follows: Tisch Hospital, Kimmel Pavilion, and Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street: January 1 to March 31 NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital: January 1 to March 31 NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn: January 1 to May 31 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island: January 1 to March 31 NOTE: NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, Summer Teen applications closed as of April 1, 2024. Please note the NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Summer 2024 Healthcare Mentorship Program is limited to students from Hempstead High School, Evergreen Charter School, and Academy Charter School. If you are only applying for the summer volunteer program, please indicate that on the application. Only volunteers being considered for interviews are contacted. Volunteer Placement Volunteers are placed according to the chosen location’s current needs, your availability, and program-specific requirements. Before you start, you must complete the Volunteer Services onboarding process. This includes a background screening, medical clearance, proof of influenza vaccination (depending on the time of year), and other compliance documents. There is also an orientation session for all new volunteers. Volunteer Programs Volunteers fulfill the following roles at various NYU Langone locations: Greeters and Guest Services volunteers provide information and compassion to patients and visitors throughout the hospital, including main lobbies, inpatient, and outpatient units. Child life volunteers assist with playroom activities and socialize with children and families. Emergency and immediate care department volunteers provide comfort and communicate updates to family members. Animal-assisted therapy is provided by certified volunteers from approved organizations. Opportunities specific to NYU Langone in Brooklyn include physical, speech, and occupational therapy; Reach Out and Read Pediatric Literacy Program; Super Sprowtz nutrition program; and opportunities at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Opportunities specific to NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island include Baby Cuddler Program, Delirium Program, and Strolling Musicians. NOTE: NYU Langone Hospital – LI is currently full and not accepting Cuddler applications Contact Information Please contact the site of your choosing directly for any questions you may have regarding available volunteer opportunities: For information on opportunities at Tisch Hospital, Kimmel Pavilion, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street, and nearby outpatient locations, please call 212-263-6100 VolunteerNYU@NYULangone.org For information on opportunities at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital and nearby outpatient programs, please email LOHVolunteerServices@NYULangone.org For information on opportunities at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, please call 718-630-7296 VolunteerBrooklyn@NYULangone.org For information on opportunities at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, please call 516-663-2391 DVS@NYULangone.org 212-263-8134 Experts at the Kidney Transplant Program at the provide world-class care with superior outcomes to people in need of a kidney transplant. We are the highest-volume program in New York State for kidneys from both deceased and from living donors. No. 1 Kidney Transplant Program in the Country In New York City, we take the fewest months to transplant and have the highest deceased donor transplant rate. Our one-year organ and patient survival rate is 100 percent for living donors, and we exceed the expected one-year graft and patient survival rate for people who receive a kidney from a deceased donor. Leaders in Clinical Care and Innovation We have the largest deceased-donor kidney transplant program and the shortest wait times for a kidney transplant in the New York City area. Our modern facilities include state-of-the-art testing sites, dedicated inpatient surgical and intensive care units, outpatient physician offices, and single-occupancy rooms for all patients. We conduct kidney transplant evaluations and provide pre- and post-transplant outpatient care at our Manhattan location, on Long Island at NYU Langone Surgical Associates—1300 Franklin Avenue, and in Brooklyn at 9920 Fourth Avenue, Suite 320. We provide care for children at the When a Kidney Transplant Is Needed People are born with two kidneys, one on each side of the spine. Kidneys are responsible for filtering blood and removing excess fluid and waste products from the body, which then leave the body as urine. Support the Kidney Transplant Program Make a monetary donation to support our work in kidney transplantation. The kidneys also regulate blood pressure, ensure electrolyte and acid–base balance, and aid in the production of new bone tissue and red blood cells. When kidney function is impaired, as in acute kidney injury or chronic kidney disease , the kidney can no longer perform these activities. This puts a person at risk for medical complications that can include , swelling, life-threatening electrolyte imbalances, anemia, and bone loss. Kidney disease may progress to the point where dialysis, a treatment that uses a machine to remove fluid and waste from the blood, is needed. While on dialysis or even before dialysis is started, your doctor may recommend a transplant. While you wait for a donor kidney, you have regular appointments at our transplant clinic with our doctors, who collaborate with your referring physician to ensure continuity in your medical care. Forms of Kidney Transplant Kidney donations come from either living donors , who consent to the donation, or from deceased persons, whose families consent to donate the person’s organs. Deceased donors are the most common source of kidneys for transplant. VIDEO: Patient Milissa Rocker Klotz and Dr. Bruce Gelb talk about Milissa’s living donor kidney transplant. In either situation, the organ is removed from the donor and placed into the recipient by our team of highly skilled transplant specialists. Our medical team supervises the recovery of living donors to ensure they can quickly return to an active lifestyle. After transplant, all patients are followed closely in our outpatient transplant clinic. Our doctors are leaders in the field of kidney transplantation. Nicole M. Ali Kidney Transplant Medical Director Jonathan C. Berger Kidney Transplant Surgical Director, Adult and Pediatrics Bruce E. Gelb Katerina Hysi Nephrologist Joseph C. Lee Pablo Loarte-Campos Bonnie E. Lonze Aprajita Mattoo Irfana Soomro Vasishta Tatapudi 10 We provide specialized care for children who have kidney disease and may need a transplant. Living Kidney Donor Information A kidney donation may come from a living donor, who provides one of their two kidneys for a transplant. The New York Blood Center collects blood donations for patients having surgery or those receiving blood transfusions at NYU Langone. We encourage people to donate blood for themselves or for family members and friends through the autologous and directed blood donation programs at the NYU Langone Blood Bank. Please call the NYU Langone Blood Bank at 212-263-5440 if you are interested in donating blood for use at NYU Langone. Patients and directed donors can choose from a list of New York Blood Center locations in New York and New Jersey to complete the donation process, if you are eligible. Donor Eligibility In New York State, most people older than age 17 and in good health can donate blood. However, there are factors related to your medical, social, or travel history that can disqualify you as a blood donor. These include a history of hepatitis, jaundice, and heart disease. In addition, you cannot be a blood donor if it’s possible you’ve been exposed to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or if you have acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Travel to areas of the world affected by malaria or bovine spongiform encephalopathy, which is more commonly known as mad cow disease, may also disqualify you. Although some of these factors may prevent you donating blood to others, you may still be able to store blood for your own use, known as autologous donation. If you have questions about your eligibility as a donor, contact the NYU Langone Blood Bank at or the New York Blood Center Donating Blood for Use at NYU Langone To donate blood for use at NYU Langone, you need a medical order signed by your doctor. You must also complete several forms to register with the New York Blood Center and the NYU Langone Blood Bank. Read our physician office instructions You must register and schedule an appointment with the New York Blood Center prior to your donation. Walk-in donors are not accepted. For help scheduling an appointment, please call the NYU Langone Blood Bank at Collection, processing, testing and shipping of blood to NYU Langone requires a minimum of five business days for autologous donations and seven business days for directed donation. For blood coming from New Jersey, please allow a minimum of 10 business days for processing. Autologous Blood Donation Autologous blood donation is the process of giving and storing blood for your own use, prior to a scheduled surgery or other anticipated need. If you have an upcoming surgery that is likely to require a blood transfusion, you can discuss autologous blood donation with your doctor. He or she can determine whether autologous donation is appropriate. Directed Blood Donation If you are likely to require a blood transfusion, which may be necessary after surgery or chemotherapy, family and friends can donate blood specifically for your use through the process of directed donation. All donated blood must be tested for infectious disease, and only blood that is compatible with your blood can be used. The Day of Your Donation On the day of your donation: Make sure that you are registered and have a scheduled appointment with the New York Blood Center. Drink plenty of fluids and eat at your regular mealtimes. Be prepared to present an official form of identification with a signature, proof of age, and a photo at the time of your donation. We have doctors in Manhattan and on Long Island. The cardio-oncologists at create personalized care plans for people who are newly diagnosed with cancer, are receiving cancer treatment, or have successfully completed cancer treatment. We protect your heart while you are receiving cancer treatment and help you maintain and improve your cardiac health once treatment is complete. Recognizing our expertise, the Cardio-Oncology Program at NYU Langone has been designated as a Gold Center of Excellence by the International Cardio-Oncology Society. Managing Cardiovascular Health During Cancer Treatment Chemotherapy, immunotherapy, radiation therapy, and other approaches can increase the risk of developing conditions such as these: cardiomyopathy or heart failure heart attack heart rhythm disorders such as atrial fibrillation (AFib) and atrial flutter heart valve disease, including mitral valve aortic valve disease lipid disorders (e.g., high cholesterol) Our cardio-oncologists work with cancer specialists at NYU Langone’s to identify whether you may be at risk of developing any of these cardiovascular complications. To do this, our specialists assess your history of cardiovascular disease, screen for underlying risk factors such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and diabetes , and use advanced cardiac testing and imaging to examine the overall health of your heart and blood vessels. We then create a tailored preventive care plan. This may include lifestyle changes, such as nutrition and exercise, or medication. During treatment, we partner with your oncologist to ensure you receive cancer treatment that optimizes your survival and quality of life, all while protecting your heart health. Cardiac Care for Cancer Survivors Cardiovascular complications can develop years after cancer treatments are over, so we may monitor your heart health with ongoing checkups. If you are an adult survivor of childhood cancer, we can create a surveillance program that considers the increased risk of cardiovascular complications, such as coronary artery disease, valve disease, or heart failure. We also work with specialists at the Cancer Survivorship Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center to support your health throughout your lifetime. Our doctors are pioneers in the field of cardio-oncology. Michelle Bloom Jeffrey G. Schneider Thoracic Oncologist Our cardio-oncologists work with a team of experts to manage your heart or vascular condition. We collaborate with your oncologist to ensure your heart health is protected while you receive cancer treatment. Learn More About Perlmutter Cancer Center We collaborate with specialists at our Heart Failure Advanced Care Center to diagnose and manage heart failure. Interventional cardiologists and cardiac surgeons use transcatheter and minimally invasive techniques to repair and replace heart valves. Our cardio-oncologists may refer you to our heart rhythm disorder experts for further care. NYU Langone Cardiologist Leads Statement on Cardio-Oncology Our Holistic Approach to Breast Cancer Caring for Cancer Patients Who Develop Cardiac Complications Heart Care During & After Cancer Treatment Joan & Joel Smilow Cardiac Prevention & Rehabilitation Center We have locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn and on Long Island. Phone: 646-501-7734 At NYU Langone’s Joan and Joel Smilow Cardiac Prevention and Rehabilitation Center, we help patients recover from cardiac conditions, such as heart attack, irregular heartbeat, or arrhythmia; congestive heart failure ; heart muscle conditions, such as ; and peripheral vascular disease. We also care for people who have had surgical procedures, including coronary angioplasty and stenting coronary artery bypass surgery pacemaker or defibrillator placement cardiac valve repair or replacement left ventricular assist device surgery heart transplantation U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for cardiology and heart surgery and rehabilitation. We are the largest cardiac inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation program in the New York region. Our medical team, staffed by physical medicine and rehabilitation physicians and cardiologists, offers a holistic approach to recovery. We bring together nurses, physical therapists occupational therapists psychologists recreational therapists social workers , nutritionists, and exercise physiologists to create a customized care plan that you can sustain in your daily life. Inpatient Cardiac Rehabilitation Program Inpatient cardiac rehabilitation begins at NYU Langone’s , where our providers help you become well enough to return home after a hospital stay. These are some of the program’s most important treatment goals: maximize your strength, balance, walking, and ability to perform daily activities perform daily activities, such as bathing and dressing educate you about medication management help you start a lifestyle modification program, which may include quitting smoking , losing weight, exercising, and controlling , high cholesterol, and create a plan to help you reintegrate with the community After you return home, rehabilitation therapists from a community home healthcare agency may meet with you two or three times a week. As you become stronger, you transition to our outpatient cardiac rehabilitation program. Outpatient Cardiac Rehabilitation Program Our center’s 12-week outpatient cardiac rehabilitation program includes physician-monitored exercise, heart health education, and specialized monitoring for people with diabetes. These are the program’s goals: improve your strength, endurance, and general wellbeing reduce heart disease symptoms, such as shortness of breath and fatigue improve your heart disease risk factors, including blood pressure, cholesterol, and blood sugar levels optimize your weight and support healthier behaviors, such as quitting smoking manage stress and improve your psychosocial wellbeing After completing the program, you receive a personalized wellness plan with exercise, nutrition, and lifestyle recommendations. Some patients may continue in our maintenance program to focus on self-monitored exercise and lifestyle changes. You are also encouraged to join a cardiovascular disease support group, such as Mended Hearts Our cardiac rehabilitation physicians and other team members help you achieve and maintain your optimal cardiovascular health. Salvatore G. Cavaleri Cardiologist Pedro De Armas-Kendall Stuart A. Dickerman Daniel C. Fisher Edward S. Katz Jonathan Newman MD, MPH Jonathan H. Whiteson Cardiopulmonary Rehabilitation Doctor Our complete cardiovascular programs offer access to superior patient care and the latest medical advances. Our specialized team of doctors is dedicated to preventing and reversing cardiovascular disease. We help you lower your heart attack risk and improve your overall health. Our experts use the latest technological advances to create a treatment plan for your unique heart problem. Jean and David Blechman Cardiac and Vascular Center We bring top cardiac and vascular specialists together to offer personalized and streamlined care. Our rehabilitation experts help you reach the highest possible levels of independence and quality of life. NYU Langone Cardiac Rehabilitation—Mineola 212 Jericho Turnpike, First Floor, Mineola, NY, 11581 516-663-8871 555 Madison Avenue, New York, NY, 10022 646-754-2000 Fax 646-754-9690 Rusk Rehabilitation Brooklyn at Sunset Park Family Health Center 5610 Second Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11220 718-630-6439 Outpatient Rehabilitation in Patchogue Outpatient rehabilitation is available at Long Island Community Hospital. Please call 631-654-7360 for an appointment. Referring Physicians Referring physicians can use our Cardiac Rehabilitation Outpatient Referral Form. View Our Cardiac Rehabilitation Outpatient Referral Form Man Survives Serious Heart Attack Thanks to Heart Experts Doctors at Learn About Our Care & Services Schedule with MyChart If you have a NYU Langone Health MyChart account, you can login and schedule your visit in two easy steps. Your login attempt was unsuccessful. Please complete all fields. MyChart Username Forgot your Username? MyChart Password Forgot your Password? Login Cancel Schedule as Guest You will receive an email with your appointment confirmation and instructions for how you can create a NYU Langone Health MyChart account. Continue as Guest Learn More About NYU Langone Health MyChart You can schedule appointments, view test results, communicate with your doctor, and more using our patient portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart. We have locations in Manhattan and Long Island. 212-263-4300 Cardiovascular Risk Assessment Cardiovascular Thrombosis Program Heart Healthy Nutrition Program Exercise & Cardiovascular Wellness Programs Cardio-Rheumatology Program Postpartum Cardiovascular Health Program Heart Health Lecture Series FAQs NYU Langone’s Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease brings together expert physicians and scientists who are dedicated to helping people prevent and reverse their risk of heart disease , the leading cause of death for both men and women in the United States. We use a comprehensive risk assessment for cardiovascular disease to create a personalized treatment plan to help you maintain a healthy heart. We collaborate with your primary care doctor to address and lower any of your cardiovascular risk factors, such as high cholesterol , with the appropriate medical treatments and lifestyle changes. We also offer nutrition and fitness consultations with our registered dietitian and exercise physiologist, who can help you adopt lifestyle changes to improve your overall health. We also offer the , led by a registered dietitian, and Exercise and Cardiovascular Wellness Programs , which are supervised by a cardiologist and have services geared to people who are new to exercise as well as established athletes. Through these programs, we help you adopt lifestyle changes to improve your overall health. Experts in Heart Disease Prevention and Care Our doctors specialize in many areas of cardiovascular care, including hypertension, high cholesterol, heart disease in women, and prediabetes, and blood clotting disorders We care for people who are at risk of developing cardiovascular disease and provide treatment for people who have already experienced a heart attack, , or heart or vascular surgery, or received a stent in the legs, heart, or neck arteries. Our experts also perform research and train healthcare professionals. Learn More About Our Research and Education To evaluate your health, we offer basic and advanced blood testing for cholesterol concentration and particles as well as testing for diabetes and other more advanced markers of cardiovascular risk. We also provide imaging, including of the heart, and at-home testing such as monitors that record your blood pressure. We partner with NYU Langone experts in neurology, rheumatology, dermatology, oncology, obstetrics, and ophthalmology to treat conditions that can impact your heart disease risk. Doctors from our provide care for people who are at increased risk of heart disease due to psoriasis and other rheumatologic conditions. Experts in our help support heart health after pregnancy. We also partner with NYU Langone’s interventional cardiologists and electrophysiologists to stop the progression of heart disease and prevent heart attacks and strokes. Our doctors are dedicated to lowering your risk for heart attack and stroke by creating customized treatment plans based on your individual lifestyle and health history. Jeffrey S. Berger Edward A. Fisher MD, MPH, PhD Center Director of Translational Research Howard Weintraub Center Clinical Director Arthur Z. Schwartzbard Center Director of Clinical Research William L. Blau Michael S. Garshick Ira J. Goldberg Sean P. Heffron Heather A. Hodson RDN, CDN, CDCES Nutritionist James A. Underberg Internist 12 Our cardiothoracic surgeons and interventional cardiologists are leaders in cardiovascular care. Joan and Joel Smilow Cardiac Prevention and Rehabilitation Center We offer both inpatient and outpatient cardiac rehabilitation services through Rusk Rehabilitation. Inherited Arrhythmia Program Our doctors offer comprehensive evaluation, diagnosis, and disease management services for adults at risk for genetic heart rhythm disorders. Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health Our endocrinologists help people with diabetes manage the condition and prevent complications. Newsletter and Upcoming Events To subscribe to Prevention Pulse, our quarterly newsletter, and our events calendar, please send your name and email address to hearthealth@nyulangone.org Heart Health Calculator Determine your risk of heart disease, heart attack, or stroke using this tool from the American Heart Association. Make a Gift Your donation can help us continue to offer the most advanced care to patients. Support Our Center Cardiologists Present at AHA’s Scientific Sessions 2024 Moderate Exercise May Reduce Risk for Common Arrythmia Platelet Score Detects Risk of Future Cardiovascular Disease Preventing Heart Disease in Pregnant & Postpartum Patients ACC 2024: NYU Langone Cardiologists Present Research At NYU Langone’s Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases, our specialists use the most advanced medical technology to identify the treatment that best matches your needs. Among the most common medical issues we manage are cerebral aneurysms, which are caused by a weak area in the wall of an artery that supplies the brain. This weak spot bulges or balloons. The larger it becomes, the greater the risk of a dangerous or even fatal rupture. We are also highly experienced at managing , abnormal tangles of arteries and veins in the brain or spinal cord that can cause headaches seizures , and, in extreme situations, bleeding or hemorrhage. Endovascular techniques are commonly used to diagnose these conditions and for treatment. During an endovascular procedure, our surgeons access the part of the vascular system that needs to be treated through a large blood vessel. Diagnosis Through Angiogram During an angiogram, a contrast dye is injected through a catheter that has been inserted into a blood vessel. The dye creates a visual outline of the inside of your blood vessels, allowing doctors to see how blood flows through arteries in the neck, head, brain, and spinal cord. A digital X-ray machine is used to take a picture. This helps us diagnose a host of conditions, including venous malformations and aneurysms. Treatments for Aneurysms Three endovascular techniques are most commonly used to treat people with aneurysms: balloon remodeling, intracranial stents, and flow diverters. NYU Langone experts helped pioneer the development of both intracranial stents and flow diverters. During balloon remodeling, surgeons thread a small balloon through your blood vessels to the base of the aneurysm, which is also called the neck. The balloon creates space and gives surgeons access to the aneurysm. They then fill the bulging part of the artery with tiny metal coils. These coils fortify the walls of the aneurysm, thus reducing the chance of a dangerous rupture. After the protective coils have been placed, the balloon and catheter are removed. Our specialists may use an intracranial stent, which is a metal tube, to treat people with aneurysms that have a complex shape. The stent provides structural support, enabling the protective coils to better strengthen the site of the aneurysm so it doesn’t burst. A newer type of stent, called a flow diverter, is helpful in treating people with larger aneurysms. A flow diverter is a dense stent that can be used with or without coils. It provides the necessary support to reduce the risk of rupture. Sometimes, endovascular treatment is not the best approach. Instead, direct surgical management of the aneurysm using microneurosurgery is a more appropriate option. For this procedure, doctors perform a microcraniotomy, using the most advanced interoperative imaging procedures. Microneurosurgery provides a permanent cure for this condition. Treatment for Arteriovenous Malformation The optimal treatment for arteriovenous malformation is direct microneurosurgery. This provides an immediate and permanent cure for this condition. This surgery is performed with the assistance of imaging guidance to specify the location and extent of the arteriovenous malformation. Endovascular techniques are also used to treat people with arteriovenous malformations. A catheter is used to deliver a special glue to the arteriovenous malformation. This reduces blood flow through the malformation, causing it to shrink. A smaller malformation may then be managed through open microneurosurgery, performed with tiny magnifying glasses and surgical instruments, or radiosurgery. In , precise, high-energy beams of radiation are used to treat people with arteriovenous malformations and arteriovenous fistulas, which are abnormal pathways between arteries and veins. The goal is to completely eliminate the abnormal blood flow through the malformation, thus reducing the risk of hemorrhage, or bleeding. Radiosurgery is of particular value to people who aren’t eligible for microsurgical tumor removal, based on the location of the arteriovenous malformation or arteriovenous fistula in the brain, other medical problems, or possible risks associated with the procedure. Treatment for Vessel Blockage Intracranial bypass is used when a stroke or vessel blockage results in insufficient blood supply to a region of the brain. This procedure can also be used to supply blood to the brain when a major vessel is blocked by a tumor or needs to be sacrificed in order to remove the tumor. In this procedure, similar to heart bypass surgery, small arteries or veins are used to create a new pathway for blood to flow around the blockage or tumor. It can also be a treatment option for people with moyamoya disease—a rare condition in which the internal carotid arteries that supply blood to the brain become narrowed, limiting blood flow. Experts at our have years of experience performing this surgical technique in both adults and children. We have locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Stroke Treatment Outcomes Certified as a Comprehensive Stroke Center We provide the most advanced stroke care, as recognized by The Joint Commission and New York State Department of Health. Leaders in Stroke Rehabilitation Doctors from Rusk Rehabilitation see patients as early as the first 24 hours after hospitalization. NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Stroke Center, with locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island, offers rapid diagnosis, effective treatment, and rehabilitative care for people who have experienced a Dr. Jennifer Frontera provides emergency care for the treatment of a stroke. We are certified by The Joint Commission and the New York State Department of Health as a Comprehensive Stroke Center. This means that our team of neurologists, neurosurgeons, neuroradiologists, and specially trained nurses based at NYU Langone’s are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to provide the most advanced stroke care. Rapid Diagnosis and Treatment of a Stroke If you or a loved one are experiencing symptoms of stroke , seek emergency care immediately. Stroke care usually begins at the , or the . Experienced triage nurses sound an alert if they suspect someone has had a stroke or seems to be having one. This alert brings the Comprehensive Stroke Center’s team of experts to the patient’s bedside within minutes. VIDEO: Learn how to act FAST and recognize the signs of a stroke—response time and rapid intervention by a team of specialists can have a significant impact on recovery. Our stroke neurologists are among the first to see a patient. They intervene quickly, ordering tests such as brain scans or brain vessel imaging to confirm a stroke diagnosis. They then determine the type of stroke the patient is having, which helps doctors decide on the best treatment plan. Vascular neurosurgeons, who have focused training in treating brain vessel abnormalities, are also integral to the stroke team. Your stroke neurologist is the team leader who coordinates all your care. Some patients may be candidates for special clot-busting drugs or interventions that can help restore blood flow to the brain. Others with more serious injury may need the neurocritical care provided by specialty trained neuro-intensivists and nurses in our intensive care units. Excellence in Stroke Treatment We’ve earned the American Heart Association’s Get with the Guidelines —Stroke Gold Plus and Target: Stroke Honor Roll Elite Plus award, which recognizes our consistent compliance with quality measures for treating stroke. Stroke neurologist Dr. Koto Ishida is part of a team of neurologists who are among the first to see a patient and coordinate all their care. Stroke Rehabilitation Doctors from are active members of the stroke team, and may become involved as early as the first 24 hours after hospitalization. They assess what kinds of specialized are needed, including physical therapy, speech–language pathology, psychology, and therapies for swallowing disorders. Inpatient rehabilitation often begins at Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, or NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. Rehabilitation may continue at Rusk Rehabilitation’s inpatient units for stroke rehabilitation. These are located within and NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, which is certified by The Joint Commission as both a Comprehensive Stroke Center and a Stroke Rehabilitation Center. We also provide outpatient rehabilitation services through Rusk Rehabilitation locations in Manhattan, Queens, and Brooklyn. For a rapid and seamless patient transfer, please call 212-263-8500 to speak directly with a stroke neurologist 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Transfer Information for Patients and Families If you would like to request a transfer to an NYU Langone facility through the Comprehensive Transfer Center , please speak with your current medical care team. Only an attending physician can initiate a transfer. Our team of neurologists, neurosurgeons, neurointerventionalists, vascular and endovascular surgeons, radiologists, intensivists, and rehabilitation doctors provides accurate diagnosis and rapid, effective treatment of stroke. Todd L. Berland Vascular Surgeon Neal S. Cayne Christine Chung Jeffrey M. Cohen Christopher M. Foresto Radiologist Heidi N. Fusco Brain Injury Rehabilitation Doctor George L. Hines Patrick J. Lamparello View All 48 Doctors & 48 Comprehensive Stroke Center at Tisch Hospital Appointments 212-263-7744 Outpatient Referrals and Questions 646-501-6712 Comprehensive Stroke Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn 718-630-7316 Comprehensive Stroke Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island 259 First Street, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-0333 Outpatient Referrals and Questions: 516-324-7500 Stroke Risks & Signs of Stroke in People Under 50 View All Locations (29) We have locations throughout the New York City area. Radiographs, commonly called X-rays, are medical images taken with invisible beams of radiation that create a picture on film, based on the different densities of the body’s structures. X-rays give a low dose of radiation and are limited to the area of interest, making this an extremely safe diagnostic tool to evaluate many parts of the body. If your doctor has ordered an imaging exam through your NYU Langone Health MyChart account, you can schedule most imaging exams using the NYU Langone Health app. Expert radiologists at NYU Langone’s review and interpret your X-rays to diagnose a variety of different conditions, including: arthritis bone cancer bowel obstruction broken bones emphysema gallstones joint dislocations kidney stones lung cancer pneumonia tuberculosis Preparing for an X-Ray When you book your appointment, please tell our office staff if there is a possibility that you are pregnant. Please bring your prescription and any previous imaging reports, films, or CD-ROMs from tests including X-ray, MRI scans, and CT scans, if available. Appointments are required for: arthrogram barium enema “Hypaque enema” for colostomy closure esophogram or barium swallow test hysterosalpingogram intravenous pyelogram (IVP) skeletal survey small bowel study upper GI or upper GI with small bowel cystogram voiding cystourethrogram Several of the above examinations require certain pre-test preparation, including: Barium enema: Requires bowel preparation 24 hours prior to the study. Upper GI, upper GI with small bowel, and small bowel series: Nothing by mouth for 12 hours prior to study. However, you can take your medications with as little water as possible. Esophagram: No preparation necessary, although it is preferred that you do not eat solid food for three hours before the study. IVP, cystogram, voiding cystourethrogram: No preparation necessary, although it is preferred that you do not eat solid food for three hours before study. No preparation is required for a skeletal survey or arthrogram. For hysterosalpingogram, patients should abstain from intercourse from the time that menstruation ends, and the test should be scheduled on day 5 to 10 after bleeding ceases. Patients who need X-rays are welcome to come to NYU Langone Radiology—Faculty Practice Radiology by appointment only, Monday through Friday from 8:00AM to 6:00PM. During an X-Ray Depending on the body part imaged, several images may be obtained to provide a complete evaluation. The average X-ray study takes 15 to 20 minutes. Fluoroscopy is a safe imaging technique that takes live X-ray images of the body by passing a continuous X-ray beam through the structure being studied. The X-ray images appear on a video screen in real time, which allows the radiologist to see how well the structure is functioning. Fluoroscopy is especially useful in diagnosing problems of the digestive tract, kidneys, and gallbladder. C-arm fluoroscopy is also used in pain management procedures and radiological intervention to observe the action of the instrument being used to either diagnose or treat the patient. A fluoroscopy exam often takes between 30 and 40 minutes. A contrast agent, given orally, by rectum, or by injection, is sometimes used for these studies. After an X-Ray The technologist transfers the images from your exam to a radiologist who specializes in the body part you had imaged. For instance, if you had a wrist X-ray, a musculoskeletal radiologist reviews the images. The radiologist creates a diagnostic report. The results are faxed, mailed, or transmitted electronically to your physician, who contacts you with your results. Our Locations (29) Perlmutter Center for Women’s Imaging 221 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY, 10016 212-731-5002 212-263-7387 NYU Langone Radiology at Trinity 111 Broadway, 2nd Floor, New York, NY, 10006 General Info 212-263-9700 Scheduling 212-263-9701 NYU Langone Radiology—Ambulatory Care Center East 41st Street 222 East 41st Street, 5th Floor, New York, NY, 10017 212-263-2290 NYU Langone Radiology—Ambulatory Care Center East 53rd Street 159 East 53rd Street, 6th Floor, New York, NY, 10022 646-754-2800 929-455-9838 530 First Avenue, HCC, Suite 2W, Schwartz West Elevators, New York, NY, 10016 NYU Langone Radiology—NYU Langone Orthopedic Center 333 East 38th Street, 6th Floor, New York, NY, 10016 646-501-7440 NYU Langone Radiology—NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital 301 East 17th Street, New York, NY, 10003 212-598-6655 212-263-4513 NYU Langone Radiology—Preston Robert Tisch Center for Men’s Health 555 Madison Avenue, 2nd Floor, New York, NY, 10022 NYU Langone Radiology—Rutherford 240 East 18th Street, Ground Floor, New York, NY, 10003 General Information 212-598-6125 Perlmutter Cancer Center Radiology—34th Street 160 East 34th Street, 2nd and 3rd Floors, New York, NY, 10016 Breast Imaging, Breast Ultrasound, and Mammography Phone Breast Imaging, Breast Ultrasound, and Mammography Fax Breast MRI, MRI and PET/CT scans, and X-ray Imaging Phone Breast MRI, MRI and PET/CT scans, and X-ray Imaging Fax 212-263-7356 NYU Langone Radiology—Ambulatory Care Bay Ridge 6740 Fourth Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11220 NYU Langone Radiology—Avenue P 1300 Avenue P, Ground Floor, Brooklyn, NY, 11229 718-954-3840 718-954-3850 NYU Langone Radiology—Greenpoint 74 Kent Street, Ground Floor, Brooklyn, NY, 11222 NYU Langone Radiology—Joseph S. & Diane H. Steinberg Ambulatory Care Center 70 Atlantic Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11201 347-689-0800 332-210-7506 NYU Langone Radiology—NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn General Info and Appointments 718-630-7400 Vascular Interventional Radiology Appointments 718-630-7408 718-630-6453 NYU Langone Radiology—Premier Imaging—Midwood 813 Quentin Road, Suite 200, Brooklyn, NY, 11223 718-832-1445 800-206-6448 NYU Langone Radiology—Premier Imaging—Park Slope 348 13th Street, Suite 101, Brooklyn, NY, 11215 NYU Langone Radiology—Hillcrest 80-15 164th Street, Jamaica Estates, NY, 11432 516-229-3550 NYU Langone Radiology—Premier Imaging—Astoria 23-18 31st Street, Astoria, NY, 11105 NYU Langone Radiology—Forest Hills 69-15 Austin Street, Forest Hills, NY, 11375 718-544-5100 718-575-1926 Perlmutter Cancer Center—Rego Park 97-77 Queens Boulevard, Rego Park, NY, 11374 Radiology Phone 718-261-8686 Radiology Fax 718-261-3803 Infusion Phone 718-517-6557 Infusion Fax 718-517-6558 NYU Langone Radiology—Regional Radiology—North 360 Bard Avenue, Staten Island, NY, 10310 718-876-4342 NYU Langone Radiology—Regional Radiology—Outerbridge 4849 Arthur Kill Road, Staten Island, NY, 10309 718-668-4777 NYU Langone Radiology—Regional Radiology—South 3917 Richmond Avenue, Staten Island, NY, 10312 718-605-6493 Long Island NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Garden City 1111 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, NY, 11530 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Outpatient Radiology 120 Mineola Boulevard, Basement Floor, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-4510 516-663-3074 NYU Langone Radiology—Lake Success, 6 Ohio Drive 6 Ohio Drive, Lake Success, NY, 11042 NYU Langone Radiology—Woodbury 105 Froehlich Farm Boulevard, Woodbury, NY, 11797 NYU Langone Radiology—NYU Langone Orthopedics—Westchester 311 North Street, White Plains, NY, 10605 914-681-8808 212-598-6365 914-358-1904 View All Locations (7) A nuclear medicine scan at NYU Langone’s requires the administration of radioactive material to be injected into the body, swallowed, or inhaled. The amount given is very small. The pharmaceutical part of the radiopharmaceutical goes to a specific place in the body where there could be disease. The radioactive part emits radiation known as gamma rays, which is detected with a gamma camera. A gamma camera allows a nuclear medicine physician to see what is happening inside your body. During this imaging procedure, the patient lies on a bed with the gamma camera positioned a few inches above his or her body. Images are taken over the next few minutes. These images allow our radiologists to diagnose a patient’s condition. Preparing for a Nuclear Medicine Scan The way you prepare for a nuclear medicine procedure depends on the type of exam you are having, such as a bone scan, hepatobiliary scan, renogram, or thyroid scan. To ensure accurate test results, follow the preparation instructions given when scheduling your appointment. When making your appointment, please indicate any medications you are taking or if you have any special needs. Please bring any previous imaging studies and reports with you if they were performed at another institution. You also need your identification card, insurance card, scan prescription, labs, and related forms. During a Nuclear Medicine Scan When you arrive for your appointment, you need to change into a gown if you are wearing any clothing with metal in it. Please advise the technologist if there is a chance that you may be pregnant. After you change, a technologist escorts you to the injection room or procedure room depending on the exam being performed. The technologist interviews you to take a detailed medical history before administering a radiopharmaceutical. The exam type determines if images are taken shortly after, several hours later, or the next day. The scan length depends on the type of exam. During the scan, you are visible to and can communicate with the technologist, who is present in the room at all times. After a Nuclear Medicine Scan At the end of the scan, the nuclear medicine physician on duty reviews your images. The results of the scan are interpreted by our nuclear medicine physicians and sent immediately to your referring physician, who contacts you with the results. Nuclear Cardiology Stress Testing A specialized type of nuclear imaging is nuclear cardiology stress testing. Experts at NYU Langone’s nuclear cardiology stress testing laboratory perform a range of tests that help cardiologists diagnose and assess many forms of heart disease. Testing is performed daily under the supervision of a board-certified cardiologist, and studies are interpreted by cardiologists and radiologists with advanced training in nuclear cardiology and cardiac imaging. Patients are referred to our laboratory for a variety of reasons. Many patients with cardiac risk factors, such as smoking, high cholesterol, family history of heart disease, , are referred to our experts to be evaluated for the likelihood of In addition, patients with chest pain or other high-risk symptoms are referred to us to find out whether heart disease is the cause of these symptoms. Patients with a known history of heart disease are often sent to us for an evaluation to assess the effectiveness of their medications. Finally, nuclear imaging of the heart is also used to provide information on the strength of the heart muscle. Stress testing most commonly involves exercise on the treadmill. For patients who are unable to exercise, pharmacologic substitutes can be used, including dipyridamole, adenosine, regadenoson, and dobutamine. To make an appointment or learn more about cardiac imaging at NYU Langone, call 212-263-5666 Our Locations (7) NYU Langone Radiology—Tisch Hospital 560 First Avenue, 2nd Floor, Tisch South Elevator, New York, NY, 10016 MRI Scheduling MRI Fax Neurointerventional Radiology Scheduling 212-263-6008 Neurointerventional Radiology Fax 212-263-0405 Nuclear Medicine Scheduling 212-263-7410 Nuclear Medicine Fax 212-263-7519 Vascular Interventional Radiology Scheduling 212-263-5898 Vascular Interventional Radiology Fax 212-263-7914 NYU Langone Radiology—NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Interventional Radiology, MRI, and Ultrasound Procedures Phone 516-663-2376 Interventional Radiology, MRI, and Ultrasound Procedures Fax 516-663-8137 Nuclear Medicine Phone 516-663-2778 516-663-3823 PET/CT Phone 516-663-2300 PET/CT Fax 516-663-9642 We have locations in New York City and on Long Island. To make an appointment, please call one of our cardiac surgeons. Ranked Among Best Hospitals “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 2 hospital in the nation for cardiology and heart surgery. Leader in Cardiac Surgery We have a three-star rating, the highest, from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons, for mitral valve replacement and repair, aortic valve repair, and coronary artery bypass. Excellence in Heart Transplant Our one-year survival rate after heart transplant is the highest in New York State. As part of , our cardiac surgeons are renowned for their ability to perform complex procedures and for pioneering new and better ways to treat conditions that affect the heart, including mitral valve disease Our cardiac surgeons offer you the most advanced options, including the latest transcatheter, minimally invasive, robotic , and open surgical techniques. Our breadth and depth of expertise ensures that you receive the treatment that is best suited to your individual diagnosis, and that allows you to go home as early as the next day—and return to your daily activities as safely and quickly as possible. We are also dedicated to making sure that every patient has a pleasant and convenient experience. Innovators in Cardiac Surgery Cardiac surgeons from our Mitral Valve Repair Program performed the first-ever minimally invasive mitral valve repair in the United States and the world’s first robotic mitral valve repair Advances in Adult Cardiac Surgery Our faculty are leaders in cardiothoracic innovation, including advances in heart device technology and minimally invasive surgical techniques. Learn About Our Research Transcatheter Heart Valve Program , our surgeons have performed more transcatheter heart valve procedures than any other program in the country, and are leaders in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) MitraClip for mitral valve repair Cardiac surgeons at our also performed the world’s first completely trans-septal percutaneous mitral valve replacement. Surgeons at our Aortic Center are sought out for their expertise in treating the most complex forms of aortic aneurysm , including aortic root, aortic arch, and thoracoabdominal aneurysms. Our cardiac surgeons were also at the forefront of many innovations in coronary bypass graft surgery, minimally invasive cardiac surgery, and congenital heart disease treatment . Surgeons at our Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Program pioneered advancements in septal myectomy and mitral valve repair that are now the gold standard in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy treatment. For patients who require heart transplant, we are one of the top heart transplant centers in the country, with the fastest transplant rate in the Northeast and highest one-year survival rate in New York State. Procedures We Perform Cardiac surgery procedures we perform include the following: adult congenital heart disease surgery repair aortic valve, mitral valve, and tricuspid valve repair and replacement, including transcatheter approaches minimally invasive and robotic techniques aortic valve replacement with coronary artery bypass graft arrhythmia treatment using Maze procedure with cryoablation or radiofrequency ablation atrial septal defect repair, using transcatheter and minimally invasive approaches coarctation of the aorta repair constrictive pericarditis surgery coronary artery bypass surgery with multiple arterial grafts extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) therapy mitral valve repair or replacement with coronary bypass surgery pulmonary thromboendarterectomy (PTE) for acute and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) septal myectomy to treat total artificial heart placement thoracic Cardiac surgery takes place at . Each person is cared for by a team of experts with advanced training in treating people with cardiac diseases. We strive to keep you and your family fully informed and actively involved throughout your treatment and recovery. Cardiac Care at NYU Langone Coronary Artery Bypass Program Our cardiac surgeons provide coronary artery bypass surgery for people with coronary artery disease. Learn More About Our Coronary Bypass Program Our doctors use transcatheter techniques, robotic, and minimally invasive techniques to repair and replace heart valves. We use minimally invasive and robotic surgical techniques to treat mitral valve disease. Learn More About Our Mitral Valve Repair Program We use nonsurgical techniques to repair and replace the aortic and mitral valve. Learn More About Our Transcatheter Heart Valve Program Adult Congenital Heart Disease Program We care for adults who were born with congenital heart defects. Learn More About Our Adult Congenital Heart Disease Program Our experienced team of cardiac and vascular surgeons provide treatment for the most challenging types of aortic aneurysm. Learn More About Our Aortic Center We offer medical and surgical life-sustaining therapies. We provide individualized care to patients with arrhythmia. We treat people who have genetic forms of heart disease. Learn More About Our Inherited Arrhythmia Program Robotic Heart Surgery Robotic techniques are used in valve replacement and bypass surgeries. Learn More About Robotic Surgery for Heart Conditions Our program is led by pioneers in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy treatment. Learn More About Our Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Program Our doctors specialize in treatment for conditions that affect the heart, arteries, and veins. Learn More About Our Heart Programs Father Thriving After Ross Procedure Repairs Heart Valve Condition Five Things You Need to Know About Aortic Aneurysm The Mission: Improve Heart Attack Diagnosis in Women How a Man with Heart Failure Qualified for Bypass Surgery An Implantable ‘Insurance Policy’ for an Irregular Heartbeat At Last: A Permanent Fix for Repeated Atrial Fibrillation A New Heart Valve Helped This Retiree Breath Easy Again Surgeons Team Up to Repair an Aorta on the Verge of Rupture Finding the Best Solution for Failing Heart Valves Combatting the Side Effects of Atrial Fibrillation Treatment Transcatheter Mitral Valve Repair & Replacement Options digital privacy statement Patient & Family Support NYU School of Medicine NYU Long Island School of Medicine Sign up for “Your Spine: An Operator’s Manual” Receive your free, one-of-a-kind digital guide to spine health created by leading specialists at NYU Langone Health, ranked No. 1 in the nation for quality and patient safety by Vizient Inc. First Name Last Name Email Address Zip Code Phone Number (Optional) I am Select your specialty I accept NYU Langone Health’s Communications Policy and understand that I may be sent email communications about care services, news, and more. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy Terms of Service apply. Sign Up Events Follow us on Twitter. Opens in a new window. Accessibility Help Line: 430 East 34th Street Pediatric Heart Failure & Transplant Program Pediatric Lung Transplant Program Doctors at the provide transplant care for children in need of heart, kidney, liver, and lung transplants. Care for children takes place at , where parents are welcome to stay with their child before surgery during recovery , and where all our hospital rooms are private and have sleeping space for one caregiver. Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone has been designated a Level 1 Children’s Surgery Center by the American College of Surgeons Pediatric transplant patients also benefit from services provided through , whose programs personalize the healthcare experience and support parents and caregivers as key members of their child’s care team. Our services for children are provided in partnership with , which has been designated a Level 1 Children’s Surgery Center by the American College of Surgeons in recognition of our ability to provide patients the safest, highest level of surgical care. Support Pediatric Transplant Surgery Help support transplant care in children with a monetary donation. Pediatric Transplant Care When transplant becomes the best treatment option for your child, our pediatric medical and surgical teams work to identify the donor organ, prepare your child for surgery, and provide ongoing care into adulthood. The team at our partners with the Pediatric Congenital Heart Program to treat children who need a transplant due to advanced heart failure caused by cardiomyopathy or certain congenital heart defects. At the , our team provides medical and surgical treatment for all forms of liver disease and provides , split liver, and whole liver transplant for children. Our provides transplants from either living or deceased donors. We also offer a Our doctors are leaders in organ transplantation in children. Rebecca Pellett Madan Pediatric Transplant Program Medical Director, Pediatric Transplant Infectious Disease Medical Director Pediatric Transplant Program Surgical Director Our transplant services are provided through the NYU Langone Transplant Institute. Care for your child is offered through Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street. 430 East 34th Street, New York, NY, 10016 View All Locations (27) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a noninvasive medical test that helps doctors at NYU Langone’s diagnose and treat certain medical conditions. MRI uses a powerful magnetic field, radio frequency pulses, and a computer to produce detailed pictures of organs, soft tissues, bone, and other internal structures of the body. X-rays are not used as part of this technology. Images can be displayed and examined on a computer monitor, transmitted electronically, printed, or copied to a CD. Radiologists at NYU Langone review and interpret your MRI results to diagnose a variety of different diseases, including abdominal, cardiac, musculoskeletal, neurological, and spine-related conditions. NYU Langone MRI scanners have short bore technology, which makes for a more comfortable scanning experience. Short bore means that the length of the tube you're in during the scan is shorter than usual. Your head and neck may be outside the tube, unless that is the area you are having scanned. If you are claustrophobic, please discuss this with your doctor prior to your MRI appointment. If sedation is prescribed by your doctor, notify the front desk when you arrive that you are taking prescribed medication for your exam. Why Doctors Order an MRI Scan NYU Langone doctors use detailed MRI images to better evaluate various parts of the body in order to determine the presence of certain diseases that may not be adequately assessed with other imaging methods, such as ultrasound However, MRI takes longer than a CT scan, and may not be ideal for all parts of the body. For example, air-filled structures, such as the lungs, are not well evaluated with MRI and may be better evaluated using CT. Depending on what information your doctor needs, the MRI scan may require the use of a contrast agent given through a vein to assist doctors in seeing certain anatomical structures within your body. For Those with Implanted Devices Because MRI technology involves the use of a magnetic field, our schedulers need to ask if you have any metal implanted devices, as well as the make and model of those devices. The reason for these questions is that certain implants may prevent you from having your exam for safety reasons. Asking as much information up front helps us make your experience at the time of the scan as efficient and as fast as possible. Examples of problematic implants include: cardiac pacemakers or old pacemaker wires brain aneurysm clips middle ear prostheses neurostimulators Please tell the intake personnel and your technologist if you have a prosthetic device, such as a hip or knee replacement. In most cases, the presence of this type of replacement does not exclude you from having an imaging exam performed. This information is helpful, though, in terms of modifying the type of MRI study performed. Patients should not wear any eye makeup or hairspray. Believe it or not, they contain metal and can cause problems in a MRI scanner. What to Bring to Your MRI Scan Please bring any previous imaging study results, such as reports, films, or CD-ROMs, from tests that may include X-rays, MRI scans, and CT scans, if they are available. On the day of your exam, bring your prescription, insurance card, and any related insurance forms or pre-approvals. We are able to play a variety of music during your MRI—if you have a preference, simply bring a CD or iPod. Preparing for an MRI Scan Preparation for your MRI depends on the type of exam you are having. If you are having a cholangiogram, or a magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography, you need to fast for four hours prior to your exam. If you are having an MR-enterography exam, you are required to drink oral contrast. If your doctor has ordered an MRI with contrast using gadolinium, and you have a history of diabetes, kidney problems, or high blood pressure, you must have your creatinine level checked prior to your MRI. The blood test must be taken within six weeks of your exam. If you have had or will be having a liver transplant, the bloodwork must be performed within one week of the exam. During the MRI Scan When you schedule your appointment, our scheduling associate lets you know how early to arrive. Depending on the exam, it may be 30 to 60 minutes before your appointment. This allows you enough time to register and complete all necessary paperwork, forms, or questionnaires. Please indicate any possibility of pregnancy to your physician and the scheduling office when you book the appointment. When you arrive, inform the MRI technologist as well. Gowns are provided for your exam. We have private dressing rooms with lockers for your clothes and valuables, although we recommend that you leave your valuables at home. Please remove all body piercings, jewelry, watches, eyeglasses, hairpins, wallets, and other metallic objects prior to your exam. After you have removed all metal objects, our MRI technologist positions you on the table of the scanner. Your head is placed in a padded plastic cradle or on a pillow, and the table slides into the scanner. An intercom system allows you and the technologist to communicate with each other at all times. In order to obtain clear pictures, you are asked to hold very still and to relax. You may be asked to hold your breath for up to 20 seconds. Any movement during the scan, especially of your head or back—even moving your jaw to talk—can blur and degrade the pictures. The machine makes rapid, loud thumping noises as it takes images. During this time, you should breathe quietly and normally and refrain from moving, coughing, or wiggling. There are multiple series of image acquisitions, each with its own particular noises. When the thumping noise stops, you must be still and maintain your position in the scanner. The entire exam typically takes between 30 and 60 minutes depending on exam type. After an MRI Scan After your procedure, you are escorted back to the dressing room. You are typically able to leave and resume your regular diet and activities. Occasionally, a procedure requires that you stay to be monitored afterward. If you brought prior images for comparison, you can pick them up at the front desk when you leave. Our specialized radiologists read the MRI images and dictate a report that is sent immediately to your referring physician, who contacts you with the results. Our Locations (27) NYU Langone Radiology—32nd Street 150 East 32nd Street, New York, NY, 10016 MRI and Ultrasound Phone MRI and Ultrasound Fax Vascular Interventional Radiology Phone NYU Langone Radiology—Center for Biomedical Imaging 660 First Avenue, New York, NY, 10016 NYU Langone Radiology—Gramercy 380 Second Avenue, Ground Floor, New York, NY, 10010 212-477-8180 NYU Langone Radiology—100 Hospital Road, Patchogue 100 Hospital Road, Suite 101, Patchogue, NY, 11722 516-762-6762 332-210-7534 NYU Langone Radiology—Great Neck 560 Northern Boulevard, Suite 102, Great Neck, NY, 11021 NYU Langone Radiology—Garden City, 765 Stewart Avenue 765 Stewart Avenue, Garden City, NY, 11530 Researchers Create an MRI Scanner from Parts in Four Days AI Reconstructed MRI Faster, as Accurate as Traditional Scan How Artificial Intelligence Is Accelerating MRI Scans Radiology Collaborates with Facebook to Speed Up MRI with AI , we take a personalized and conservative approach to treating conditions affecting the spine and spinal cord. Most often, is not necessary. Many conditions improve on their own over time or with nonsurgical treatment. Get Your Free Copy Our team works closely with rehabilitation medicine and pain management specialists to offer nonsurgical therapies including acupuncture. Our spine specialist team works closely with specialists at NYU Langone’s to offer the following nonsurgical therapies: occupational physical therapy, including guided programs of strengthening and stretching exercises to improve mobility and relieve pain injections of pain management medications that alleviate inflammation around nerves or relieve arthritic joint pain, including epidural injections of steroids or other medications delivered by interventional radiologists medication taken orally, which may include steroids and other anti-inflammatories, muscle relaxants, and pain relievers chiropractic treatment for chronic meditation, offered through , which can relieve stress, anxiety, and pain acupuncture, which can prompt the nervous system to release pain-relieving endorphins Our experts may also recommend lifestyle modifications to your daily routine that can help you reduce pain and increase your mobility. When appropriate, our pain management and neurosurgical teams can provide pain pump implantation or dorsal column stimulation, in which electricity is used to relieve chronic pain caused by We have Spine Center locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn and on Long Island. To make an appointment, call If you and your doctor decide that spinal surgery is the best treatment for your spine condition, the renowned orthopedic surgeons and neurosurgeons at the work together to create a personalized treatment plan for you. Whenever appropriate, we use minimally invasive approaches, many of which NYU Langone experts helped pioneer. These techniques allow for smaller incisions, a shorter recovery time, and a quicker return to the activities you enjoy. We use the most advanced navigation and surgical technologies available. For example, our surgeons use Precision Virtual Reality for procedures treating spinal deformities. Developed and refined by NYU Langone neuroradiologists, this technology turns MRI images into three-dimensional virtual reality landscapes, allowing surgeons to view a patient’s anatomy from any angle to improve the accuracy of the procedure. Dr. Anthony Frempong-Boadu performs surgery using advanced, real-time spinal navigation. Our intraoperative monitoring team helps ensure your safety during the procedure by observing your motor skills, checking muscle and nerve health, and monitoring your reaction to touch, pressure, and pain. Our surgeons are supported by a team of nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and neurosurgical nurses who monitor your progress and care for you with compassion, starting before surgery and continuing through recovery. Conditions We Treat with Spine Surgery We treat a broad range of conditions that affect the spine: degenerative conditions, such as osteoarthritis of the spine complex spinal problems associated with a previous failed surgery scoliosis and kyphosis in in children adults cervical and lumbar herniated discs neuromuscular diseases spinal cord and spinal column tumors all spinal fractures, including spine compression fractures spine trauma intradural and extradural spinal pathologies vascular lesions of the spinal cord and spinal column congenital conditions such as , tethered cord syndrome, diastematomyelia, Chiari malformations, and hemivertebrae Spine Procedures We Perform Our surgeons have expertise in a range of surgical procedures, some of which can be performed on an outpatient basis, allowing you to return home the same day. Discectomy or Microdiscectomy Discectomy and microdiscectomy both refer to decompression surgeries to remove the portion of a disc that is herniated and pressing on a nerve. These procedures preserve mobility. Cervical Laminoplasty and Laminectomy During this decompression procedure, a surgeon enlarges the spinal canal, the space through which the spinal cord passes, to alleviate stenosis and preserve mobility. Foraminotomy Foraminotomy is a decompression procedure in which surgeons enlarge the space through which a nerve passes out of the spinal canal. These spaces, called foramina, can become partially blocked with bone or other tissue. Surgeons remove the obstruction to free the nerve and preserve mobility. Laminectomy and Laminotomy During a laminectomy, a surgeon removes the back part of a vertebra, called the lamina, to provide more space to a nerve or a portion of the spinal cord that is being compressed. If only a portion of the lamina is affecting the nerve, the surgeon may remove some of the tissue in a procedure called laminotomy. Both procedures preserve mobility. Disc Replacement In a disc replacement, which is performed to decompress nerves or part of the spinal cord in the cervical or lumbar spine, surgeons replace a worn or damaged disc between two vertebrae with an artificial disc, or “spacer.” No plates or fusion is needed for this procedure, which preserves mobility. Your doctor may recommend disc replacement rather than spinal fusion if you have a herniated disc in your neck and are younger than 65. Spine Fusion Surgery Spine fusion surgery is performed to stabilize the spine or to straighten a crooked spine. During the procedure, a surgeon permanently joins, or fuses, two or more vertebrae in the spine. As the vertebrae heal, they become one solid bone. This prevents the vertebrae from moving in a way that compresses or irritates the nerve. Spinal fusion is performed to treat some spinal degenerative conditions and spinal deformities such as scoliosis or kyphosis, as well as broken or unstable vertebrae and conditions including spondylolisthesis. Vertebral Body Tethering Vertebral body tethering (VBT) is a minimally invasive spine surgery to treat children with scoliosis. During this procedure, a surgeon places a flexible cord, or tether, to pull the spine into alignment as the child grows. VBT is one alternative to traditional surgical techniques such as spinal fusion surgery Dedicated Spine and Neurosurgery Operating Rooms Many of our spine surgeries are performed at NYU Langone’s in dedicated spine and neurosurgery operating rooms—which feature the most advanced technology available, including navigation, robotics, intraoperative CT, and MRI scanning—on dedicated neuroscience floors, where all team members specialize in caring for people who have spine conditions. We have Spine Center locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn, as well as on Long Island. To make an appointment, call Become a Living Kidney Donor Support the Living Kidney Donor Program Make a monetary donation to support our living kidney donor program. Although the number of patients added to the national kidney transplant waiting list increases each year, the number of available donors stays roughly the same. This means potential kidney recipients must often wait to receive lifesaving care for , a part of the , our doctors perform kidney transplants from living donors. This approach allows for shorter wait times and timely treatment of kidney disease, which can improve the outcomes of recipients. Organ Donation by Living Kidney Donors For living kidney donation, donors provide one of their two kidneys for a transplant. The remaining kidney is fully functioning and ensures that the donor remains healthy and has a good quality of life. Surgical techniques, including minimally invasive kidney removal, have made it easier for family members and others to donate a kidney to a loved one in need. Patient Milissa Rocker Klotz and Dr. Bruce Gelb talk about Milissa’s living donor kidney transplant. There is no financial or medical benefit to donating a kidney. However, many people find helping another person to live longer with a better quality of life and no need for dialysis is incredibly rewarding. Any healthy individual can be a donor, not only immediate family members. Nondirected donation involves donating to a stranger. Paired kidney exchange, also called paired donation, matches incompatible pairs for transplants. These options allow anyone to become a living donor.Our experts complete an extensive evaluation process to minimize the risks to the donor. Benefits of Living Kidney Donation Kidneys from living donors typically last longer in recipients than kidneys from deceased donors. When a kidney is received from a deceased donor, organ transplant surgery must occur within a short timeframe. A living donor kidney provides the recipient with the ability to prepare for surgery. The date of the procedure can be planned around the donor’s schedule, as well as the schedule of the medical team and the recipient. Doctors can also schedule kidney transplant surgery at a time when the kidney recipient is doing well medically. The healthier the recipient is before transplant, the better. We aim to perform transplant early enough in the disease process, before other organs and systems are affected. This allows for a safer procedure, helps with the recovery process, and improves surgical outcomes. Living Kidney Donor Consultation Kidney donor candidates must complete a series of medical examinations and interviews with our transplant team to determine whether they are appropriate candidates for living donation surgery. The consultation may include the following: blood tests to check kidney function and to determine donor blood type and tissue type, which ensures compatibility for a recipient urine tests to help screen for kidney disease and for urinary tract infection imaging tests such as X-rays and MRI or CT scans to check the structure and function of the kidneys evaluation by a cardiologist to ensure any is controlled, an electrocardiogram (EKG) to check the heart’s electrical activity, and a possible echocardiogram, an imaging test to evaluate the heart’s structure and function pulmonary tests to check lung function a meeting with a social worker or psychologist to ensure the donor is prepared for the organ donation process a discussion with a transplant surgeon and nephrologist, which is a kidney specialist a meeting with an independent living donor advocate, who ensures that the donor’s interests are represented When this evaluation is complete, our transplant team meets with the potential donor to discuss test results and candidacy. If the team agrees, the surgery is planned around the donor’s and recipient’s schedules. What to Expect from Kidney Donor Surgery Our doctors are experts in kidney transplantation . For living donor kidney surgery, doctors perform a nephrectomy, which is the surgical removal of a healthy kidney. Surgeons typically use laparoscopy, a minimally invasive approach that requires making a small incision in the lower abdomen. After surgery, the donor may remain in the hospital for a couple days for observation and can typically return to regular activities after six weeks. If you are interested in becoming a living kidney donor, you can complete a confidential health screening for kidney donations To learn more about kidney donation or to speak with a donor team specialist, call 212-263-3621 NYUTrLivingDonor@NYULangone.org 530 First Avenue, 5th Floor View All Locations (8) 646-501-0119 Our Care Team HFpEF Program At NYU Langone’s Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, our experts are specially trained to evaluate and treat people with any stage or type of —including those who are considering a , a total artificial heart, or a VIDEO: Our doctors discuss how personalized treatment can help patients manage heart failure. Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) Program , we provide comprehensive diagnosis techniques and therapies for identifying and managing HFpEF. We strive to improve symptoms and quality of life for patients with this condition, and aim to reduce their risk of hospitalization. Our Personalized Approach The mission of our team at the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center is to empower you to take control of your health by educating you and your family about how to best manage your heart condition. When you come to us for care, we evaluate not only your heart, but also your overall health for a more holistic approach to treatment. Our doctors and nurses are specialists in advanced heart failure. We know that many people with heart failure often have other conditions such as chronic kidney disease , and anemia, so we work with you and your other physicians to address your full medical history and unique health goals to develop a personalized treatment plan using the most advanced therapeutics. Your healthcare team works with you to put that treatment plan into action. A specially trained nurse practitioner shows you successful strategies to monitor heart failure, and teaches you lifestyle modifications to maximize your heart health. A clinical pharmacist explains how each of your medications works and its possible side effects, and reviews your medication list to identify potential drug interactions. If you have symptoms of advanced heart failure, our team of experts may recommend that you be evaluated for an LVAD, a total artificial heart, or a heart transplant. The use of an LVAD or a total artificial heart may be used as a “bridge to transplant” therapy. These supportive devices can help you maintain and improve your overall cardiac health while waiting for a donor heart. An LVAD can also be used as “destination therapy” if you are not a candidate for a heart transplant. Our heart failure experts comprise the core of our LVAD and heart transplant team, so your transition of care is seamless. We see patients in Manhattan, Queens, and Brooklyn, and at several locations across Nassau and Suffolk Counties. To make an appointment at any of our locations, please call Our experts specialize in diagnosing advanced heart failure and collaborate to develop personalized treatment plans for every patient. Stuart D. Katz Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction Program Our experts offer comprehensive diagnosis and treatment for people with HFpEF. Our experienced team provides skilled and compassionate care for people who need a heart transplant. LVAD Program We offer sophisticated technology aimed at extending and improving the lives of people with advanced heart failure. Cardiac Amyloidosis Care We offer expert diagnosis and care to people with cardiac amyloidosis. Our cardiothoracic surgeons and interventional cardiologists are leaders in cardiovascular care, with a specialty in minimally invasive procedures and surgery for conditions that affect the aorta, arteries, valves, veins, and heart. NYU Langone offers both inpatient and outpatient cardiac rehabilitation services through Rusk Rehabilitation. Our Locations (8) 530 First Avenue, 5th Floor, New York, NY, 10016 NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Rego Park 97-85 Queens Boulevard, Rego Park, NY, 11374 Doctors’ Offices/Appointments 718-261-9100 718-261-6483 212 Jericho Turnpike, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-4480 NYU Langone Cardiovascular Associates—Manhasset 1155 Northern Boulevard, Suite 330, Manhasset, NY, 11030 516-627-4330 516-467-2557 Cardiac Arrhythmia Center 516-267-5708 Cardiac Arrhythmia Center Fax 516-267-5730 Transcatheter Heart Valve Center 646-501-0264 NYU Langone Huntington Medical Group NYU Langone Island Cardiac Specialists—Garden City 1401 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, NY, 11530 516-877-2626 NYU Langone Levit Medical 1220 Avenue P, Brooklyn, NY, 11229 718-376-1004 718-376-1150 NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Chelsea 160 West 26th Street, 2nd and 3rd Floors, New York, NY, 10001 646-660-9999 Please mail a copy of your medical records to our office, including CDs or DVDs of any heart imaging tests, before your first appointment. Learn more about NYU Langone’s environmental health and safety policies, which describe our required processes and procedures for vendors. These policies are updated regularly. COVID-19 Policies for NYU Langone Health Vendors The following COVID-19 policies apply to all NYU Langone Health work: COVID-19 Contractor Exemption COVID-19 Requirements for Real Estate Development and Facilities (RED+F) Contractors and Service Providers that Function as Extensions of Staff 001 COVID-19 Requirements for RED+F Contractors and Service Providers that do not Function as Extensions of Staff 002 RED+F Contractor and Vendor Vaccination Requirements COVID-19 RED+F Contractor Isolation and Quarantine Memo Updated COVID-19 RED+F Contractor Isolation and Quarantine Requirements Other Policies for NYU Langone Health Vendors The following policies apply to all NYU Langone Health work: Policy No. 159: Asbestos Management Program Policy No. 138: Confined Space Entry Program Policy No. 167: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout) Policy No. 120: Construction Contractor Safety Requirements Policy No. 157: Electrical Safety Policy No. 169: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment Shutdown Policy No. 160: Fall Prevention and Protection Program Policy No. 122: Fire Prevention Policy No. 126: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials Policy No. 121: Hazard Communication Program Policy No. 108a: Hazardous Waste from Construction and Building Maintenance Policy No. 143: Hot Work Program Policy No. 133: Medical Gas Outlets and Piping Policy No. 145: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Policy No. 163: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Policy No. 144: Lead Management Program Policy No. 170: Mercury Elimination Program Policy No. 149: Powered Industrial Truck Program Policy No. 104: Tobacco Free Facilities Policy No. 108c: Universal Waste Management Program Policy No. 212: Use of Cellular and Mobile Phones, Personal Computers, and Laptops Policy No. T.01: Above Ceiling Inspections, Penetrations in Fire/Smoke Walls Real Estate, Development & Facilities Design Guidelines NYU Langone Health’s design group within Real Estate Development and Facilities provides design oversight on capital construction projects throughout our organization. The team works with project managers, architectural and engineering teams, consultants, and vendors to ensure that projects are designed, detailed, and built to comply with NYU Langone’s design principles: design concept construction quality cost effectiveness schedule compliance design flexibility efficiency, functionality, and practicality intuitive wayfinding durable materials attention to detail collaborative process Read NYU Langone’s design guidelines: ​ 2024 NYU Langone Design Guidelines 2024 NYU Langone Design Guidelines with Changes Tracked 2023 NYU Langone Design Guidelines 2023 NYU Langone Design Guidelines with Changes Tracked Wayfinding and Communications Standards Manual NYU Langone Health’s Wayfinding and Communications Standards Manual further develops and documents the policy, strategy, and design standards of NYU Langone’s wayfinding and communications master plan. The manual provides graphic and technical specifications for the integrated wayfinding and communications system being consistently implemented throughout NYU Langone's facilities. Expected language, design, and placement of the system’s components is imperative to building a trusted and reliable wayfinding and communications system. The standards manual should be referenced by relevant consultants and staff members when implementing the system. Read NYU Langone’s Real Estate, Development & Facilities Procurement Opportunities The Real Estate Development and Facilities Department (RED+F) plans, develops, operates, and maintains 6 inpatient facilities and over 300 locations across New York City, Long Island, and Florida. We aim to provide a solid foundation for ongoing growth and success. RED+F provides strategic campus planning and project development services, including architectural studies, programming, design, construction, and associated infrastructure and technological upgrades, for new structures and renovations to existing structures throughout NYU Langone Health’s portfolio. The department also operates and manages all infrastructure and related support services for facilities across the institution; it also oversees food and nutrition services. To do business with NYU Langone Health, you must first qualify as a provider in one of two categories: architecture, design, engineering, programming, and related services; or construction services under a master or on-call agreement. Alternatively, you may qualify as a construction manager for specific project developments. Please note that although qualification under either agreement or as a construction manager does not guarantee project assignments, it does increase your eligibility for consideration. If qualified, you may be considered to bid on specific projects without a master or on-call agreement; experience in the healthcare field is preferred. Please contact REDFSolicitation@NYULangone.org for a qualification questionnaire and information on different agreement types used by NYU Langone Health. RED+F is currently in need of the following services in these locations: New York City: plumbing, electrical, and site assessment firms Nassau and Suffolk County: plumbing and electrical contractors Florida: mechanical, electrical, and plumbing contractors 212-263-5959 Surgical Innovation Exceptional Care Plans Our long-term care plans for aortic health include genetic testing, medical treatments, and advanced surgical options. Valve Preservation We specialize in preserving aortic valve tissue to ensure longer-lasting valve repair and a return to an active life. Rapid Recovery Most of our patients are out of bed within four hours of open heart surgery and go home within four days. The aorta is the body’s largest and most important artery, supplying blood to the head, neck, arms, chest, and abdominal organs. At NYU Langone’s Aortic Center, our renowned experts bring together decades of expertise to keep your aorta healthy. Our team, which includes cardiologists, cardiac surgeons, vascular surgeons, and genetic counselors, offers a complete approach to treating aortic disease. We provide genetic and family screening, medical therapy, specialized imaging surveillance, and the latest approaches to surgery . Our goal is to allow patients to return to a full, active life. Our doctors manage a full array of aortic conditions, including all types of the following: , which is a bulge in the aortic wall , or a life-threatening tear in the aortic wall, which can be caused by an aneurysm in which the aortic valve, the gateway between the largest chamber of the heart and the aorta, stiffens or does not function properly; aortic valve disease includes stenosis, regurgitation, and bicuspid aortic valve disease Other forms of aortic disease that we diagnose and treat include: aortic intramural hematomas, in which blood leaks through the innermost layer of the aortic wall and flows between the inner and outer walls penetrating atherosclerotic ulcers, which cause the formation of plaque that damages the aortic wall connective tissue diseases in which the aorta is sensitive to injury, such as Marfan syndrome , Loeys-Dietz syndrome, or Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Whatever your condition, we offer a personalized care plan that meets your health needs and goals. Comprehensive Work-Up and Expedited Consultations Providers at our Aortic Center offer you a thorough evaluation that includes dedicated aortic disease imaging and visits with our aortic cardiologist, aortic surgeon, and nurse practitioner. We discuss your care options and answer any questions you may have about the treatment process. Aortic aneurysms are often found due to an unrelated procedure or imaging test for patients who do not have any symptoms. Being told you have an aneurysm and need to meet with a surgeon can be overwhelming, so we offer an expedited consultation. At our Aortic Center, we make sure patients are seen within two weeks of referral. We arrange all imaging before your consultation if needed. Experts in Surgery Our cardiothoracic surgeons offer a full array of innovative surgeries for the aorta. These include open procedures, minimally invasive procedures, and a combination of both, known as a hybrid procedure. We are experts at repairing all areas of the aorta to manage aneurysm and offer the latest surgical approaches to treating aortic valve disease. In addition, we offer care to people who were told elsewhere that surgery was not suitable for them. Faster Recovery and Enhanced Rehabilitation Patients we care for get home faster than those who have surgery at other hospitals. The majority of our patients are out of bed within four hours of open heart surgery. We offer enhanced and early physical therapy and cardiac rehabilitation to allow patients to recover faster. Surveillance Monitoring When you come to the Aortic Center, we partner with you to provide care after your initial treatment. We work with your cardiologist to build a customized long-term monitoring plan. In addition, we create a schedule for serial imaging scans to monitor your aorta. We also provide guidance on living an active and full lifestyle while also staying safe. Some medications can reduce the risk of a worsening aortic disease. Certain types of aortic dissection may also benefit from medical therapy Genetic Testing Our doctors offer comprehensive evaluations that include genetic testing. Many people are unaware that they have a genetically inherited connective tissue disorder such as Marfan syndrome until they receive testing. If someone is confirmed to have one of these disorders, we adapt our strategy to provide the treatment that is most likely to heal the aneurysm with the least risk of adverse effects. We may also recommend genetic screening for immediate family members. Leaders in Aneurysm Research NYU Langone continues to lead the way in research to find the best treatment for aortic aneurysms, as well as the role growth factors, cellular mechanisms, genetics, and inflammation play in causing aneurysms and other artery diseases. We are also one of a handful of centers involved in several important At the Aortic Center, our team includes experts in cardiothoracic and vascular surgery. Mark D. Peterson Aortic Surgery System Director Thomas Maldonado Site Director, Vascular Surgery Center Co-Director, Vascular Surgery Sunil Abrol Aubrey C. Galloway Karan Garg Mohammed N. Imam Patrick Jasinski Mikel Sadek Scott Safir Scott L. Schubach Adam H. Skolnick Georgios Spentzouris Reese A. Wain Elias A. Zias 17 Our complete cardiovascular programs provide superior patient care and the latest medical advances. Our surgeons use transcatheter, robotic, and minimally invasive techniques to treat diseases of the aortic and mitral valves. Our team is dedicated to preventing and reversing heart disease and lowering your risk of heart attack. Aortic Center—Manhattan Aortic Center—Long Island 259 First St., Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-4400 Mark Peterson, MD, PhD, Named Aortic Surgery System Director What Is an Aortic Aneurysm & How Can You Lower Your Risk? NYU Langone Experts Perform Complex Aortic Repair Enhancing Vascular Access & Treatment for Vascular Disease Adult ECMO Program We are located at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion. Treatment Support When a severe illness or medical procedure affects breathing or heart function, patients might need mechanical circulatory support from medical devices that take over the work of the lungs or heart, allowing them to heal. NYU Langone has received the Platinum Level Center of Excellence Award from the Extracorporeal Life Support Organization (ELSO). Mechanical circulatory support, which includes temporary ventricular assist devices , helps the heart circulate blood through the body. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, or ECMO, is a type of mechanical circulatory support device that, in addition to pumping blood, also takes over the work of the lungs. These types of treatments, provided through NYU Langone’s Adult ECMO Program, can last for a few hours or up to a few weeks. Excellence in ECMO and Mechanical Circulatory Support Experts at use mechanical circulatory support devices can be used to treat , heart attack, or acute respiratory failure, often as a temporary therapy before long-term treatment such as a ventricular assist device, ECMO is also used to treat people who have severe, life-threatening COVID-19, and our success rates exceed the national average. In the first two calendar years of the pandemic, our overall survival rate for people on ECMO support was 84 percent. The nationwide average during this time, reported by the Extracorporeal Life Support Organization, was 48 percent. In recognition of our excellent patient outcomes and survival rates, NYU Langone has received the Platinum Level Center of Excellence Award from the Extracorporeal Life Support Organization (ELSO). Specialized Care and Support for Patients and Families Specialized care is provided at by our team of doctors, surgeons, nurses, and perfusionists, the specialists who operate the ECMO machines. Treatment includes surgery to connect mechanical circulatory support devices to blood vessels, as well as ongoing monitoring and care. ECMO care for children is provided through the Pediatric ECMO Program We provide resources to support you and your loved one undergoing treatment, including integrative health programs that promote stress relief, emotional support from our spiritual care team palliative and supportive care to ease the side effects of mechanical circulatory support and ECMO care. For emergency referrals, medical professionals can call the Our doctors specialize in critical care, heart failure, and heart and lung transplants. Anthony S. Lubinsky Program Co-Medical Director Nancy E. Amoroso Anthony Andriotis Transplant Pulmonologist Shari B. Brosnahan David Fridman JH Jacklyn M. Hagedorn Syed T. Hussain Deepak R. Pradhan MD, MHPE Pedro J. Rivera Related Services Our patients spend less time on the heart transplant waitlist than at any other hospital in New York state. Learn More About Heart Transplantation Lung Transplantation Our doctors perform single- and double-lung transplants. Learn More About Lung Transplantation Our doctors treat heart failure and its related conditions. Learn More About Treatment for Heart Failure We ensure patients are transported safely to or within NYU Langone facilities. Learn More About Transfers to NYU Langone Left ventricular assist device (LVAD) therapy is used to help treat people with advanced heart failure. Learn More About Our LVAD Program Complex Surgery for Lung Blood Clots Saves First-Time Mom A Lifesaving Intervention for Critically Ill COVID Patients Heart & Kidney Transplant Restores a Patient’s Independence COVID-19 Survivor Meets the Care Team That Saved His Life Life Support Brings COVID-19 Patients Back from the Brink ECMO Support Can Benefit Patients with Coronavirus 212-263-3940 ’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 2 hospital in the nation for cardiology and heart surgery. Highly Experienced Surgeons Our team is among the most experienced in New York City, performing over 5,000 repair procedures over the last 40 years. Highly Successful Outcomes We are a Mitral Valve Repair Reference Center, awarded by the American Heart Association for our nearly 100 percent mitral valve repair success rate. Cardiac surgeons at NYU Langone’s Mitral Valve Repair Program are leaders in treating , a condition that can lead to shortness of breath, fatigue, and, if left untreated, Mitral valve repair reconstructs and reinforces existing parts of the valve so that they close properly. It is safer, has fewer complications, and lasts longer than mitral valve replacement with an artificial or donor valve, which can harden or wear out over time. Dr. Didier F. Loulmet is director of the Robotic Mitral Valve Program. Leaders in Mitral Valve Repair Our surgeons have a nearly 100 percent success rate in using robotically assisted and minimally invasive techniques to repair even the most complex mitral valves. This distinction has earned us recognition as a Mitral Valve Repair Reference Center from the American Heart Association and the Mitral Foundation. Our doctors have performed more than 5,000 mitral valve repair procedures since our program began in 1980, making our surgeons among the most experienced and skilled in the world at mitral valve repair. Both robotically assisted and minimally invasive approaches allow for smaller incisions and a quicker recovery time. People from around the country travel to NYU Langone for minimally invasive and robotic mitral valve repair to treat complex conditions that are often deemed inoperable by other centers. Our long-term clinical follow-up studies have shown that our mitral valve repair techniques restore normal valve function and help our patients achieve lasting symptom relief. As part of NYU Langone’s , we also partner with interventional cardiologists at the , who provide mitral valve repair using MitraClip™. Your doctor helps you decide which mitral valve repair technique is the best treatment for your condition. All of our procedures take place at , which features the latest surgical technology and single-bedded rooms. VIDEO: NYU Langone cardiac surgeons use robotic techniques to treat mitral valve disease. Our doctors are pioneers in robotically assisted mitral valve repair , which requires only five pencil-sized incisions placed between the ribs through the right chest wall. Using robotic instruments and a small camera, your surgeon directs the movements of a surgical robot inside the heart. This allows for a range of motion the human hand is incapable of performing. Our doctors have performed more than 1,000 of these procedures. Robotically assisted mitral valve repair typically involves less blood loss, less pain after surgery, and less chance of infection, and it requires a shorter recovery time than traditional open heart surgery. Most people require only a two- to three-day stay in the hospital, followed by a few weeks of recovery at home. Minimally Invasive Direct Vision Mitral Repair Minimally invasive direct vision mitral valve repair techniques allow our cardiac surgeons to access the heart and valve with only a small incision on the right side of the chest. Miniature surgical tools provide light and magnification that allow the surgeon to repair the valve using direct vision, without the need for X-ray imaging. Our surgeons have used this approach in more than 1,500 mitral valve repair procedures. The average hospital stay is three days, followed by a two- to three-week recovery at home. This technique yields excellent long-term results, with research showing that the repaired valve continues to function well up to 20 years after the initial surgery. Our cardiac surgeons specialize in robotically assisted and minimally invasive mitral valve repair. Didier F. Loulmet Robotic Mitral Valve Repair Program Director Eugene A. Grossi Robotic Mitral Valve Repair Program Associate Director Mathew R. Williams Heart Valve Center Director Mitral Valve Repair Program Director For General Consultations: 646-501-0568 For Surgical Consultations: 212-263-5979 212-263-8972 Nationally Recognized We are recognized as a Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Association Center of Excellence for our dedication to patient care and safety. Leaders in Medical and Surgical Care We have treated more than 2,500 people and are the largest and most experienced program in New York. At NYU Langone’s Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Program, our heart surgeons and cardiologists are world-renowned leaders in the treatment of people with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) , which causes the heart muscle to become thick and stiff, creating obstructions that limit the heart’s ability to pump blood through the body. Our program is led by cardiologist Dr. Mark V. Sherrid and cardiac surgeon Dr. Daniel G. Swistel , who each have more than 40 years of experience and have together treated more than 2,500 people who have HCM. Our team specializes in treatments for people with the most complex and severe forms of HCM. We develop targeted treatment plans that start with finding the right medications to control your symptoms and improve your quality of life, and then move on to surgery when needed. Under the care of our doctors, our patients experience a greatly improved quality of life and can expect to have a normal lifespan. VIDEO: Dr. Mark V. Sherrid, director of NYU Langone's Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Program, explains the five-point approach used to diagnosis hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and create an effective treatment plan. We are innovators in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy surgery . The surgical procedures widely used to treat forms of HCM that involve the mitral valve were developed by Dr. Swistel and are performed regularly by our team. For people with severe disease that does not respond to standard medical and surgical care, we work with the , which is home to the nation’s top Advanced Treatment for Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy If it is not treated, HCM can cause and dangerous, irregular heart rhythm, especially during physical exertion. Although infrequent, HCM can lead to ventricular arrhythmia that can cause sudden death. We provide the early diagnosis and targeted symptom management that are vital to managing this condition. Our cardiologists use imaging tests such as electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, and to diagnose HCM and understand its impact on the heart. Because HCM can be an inherited condition, we also offer genetic screening, DNA analysis, and counseling for family members who are at increased risk of developing HCM. Treatment for HCM may include medications , surgery, or less invasive treatments, including alcohol septal ablation Innovative Medication Therapy Treatment for HCM includes medications that decrease heart rate and prevent blood clots and abnormal heart rhythms. Dr. Sherrid is an innovator in the use of disopyramide, a medication used to treat obstructive HCM that does not respond to beta blocker therapy. Disopyramide prevents the heart from overcontracting, which occurs in some patients with obstructive HCM. By relaxing the force of each heartbeat, this medication helps to reduce the amount of obstruction and relieve symptoms. For people with nonobstructive HCM, we use other medications including beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, and diuretics when needed. Our program participates in research into new medications for treatment of obstructive HCM, and select patients might be candidates for these investigational therapies. Septal myectomy is the most common surgery for HCM, and our surgeons have performed more than 600 of these procedures. Septal myectomy reduces obstructions in the heart by thinning the septum, which is the wall between the left and right sides of the heart. For some people with HCM, the heart’s mitral valve is the source of the obstruction. Dr. Swistel specializes in mitral valve treatment for people with HCM, and invented several surgical techniques now used to preserve the mitral valve in people with HCM, including horizontal plication and residual leaflet excision, or ReLex. Both procedures correct complex structural abnormalities in the mitral valve that obstruct blood flow. VIDEO: At NYU Langone's Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Program, our team has more than 30 years of experience providing medical and surgical treatment that improves symptoms and reduces the risk of related cardiac disease such as heart failure. In addition, we are one of only two centers in the country that provide surgical treatment for midventricular and apical HCM, which affect different areas of the heart. This procedure reduces a person’s symptoms of heart failure and the need for a future heart transplant. Our team includes cardiac surgeons from the NYU Langone Transplant Institute, who are available to perform a heart transplant when conventional therapies are not adequate to control your symptoms. Minimally Invasive Treatments We also work with electrophysiologists from our , who use cardiac devices such as the implantable cardiac defibrillator and pacemaker to correct irregular heart rhythms. Our electrophysiologists also perform catheter ablation to treat atrial fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. We also work with interventional cardiologists who perform alcohol septal ablation, a minimally invasive procedure that uses highly concentrated alcohol to remove obstructions and improve blood flow. Leaders in HCM Research Our doctors have a long history of participation in research. We participate in clinical trials for medications that relieve symptoms in people with obstructive HCM. Dr. Swistel has led research into novel surgical repairs to the mitral valve for treatment of obstructive HCM. Our research also includes the role of weight loss in HCM treatment, the causes of apical aneurysm in people with HCM, and the role of mitral annular calcification in left ventricular outflow obstruction. Our participation in HCM research allows our patients access to medications and treatments that are not yet widely available. Our cardiologists and heart surgeons are innovators in the treatment of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Mark V. Sherrid Daniel G. Swistel Program Surgical Director Joshua A. Scheinerman Associate Surgical Director Daniele Massera Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Doctor Louai Razzouk Interventional Cardiologist 5 Affiliated Cardiac Programs NYU Langone Heart Programs We provide the most technologically advanced treatment for heart failure while also helping you to manage other medical conditions. Learn More About the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center Our highly experienced team provides treatment for more than 4,500 people each year. Learn More About the Heart Rhythm Center Our heart transplant program is known for our innovative surgical approaches and high success rates. Learn More About Heart Transplants Treatment on Long Island Our doctors also see patients at NYU Langone Cardiology Associates—Mineola on Long Island. Learn More About Care on Long Island Office Hours Appointments are available weekdays from 9:00AM to 5:00PM. We have locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island. 646-501-0647 Our Specialists At NYU Langone’s Adult Congenital Heart Disease Program, our expert team provides specialized care for people living with congenital heart conditions, which are defects that exist from birth that affect the structure and function of the heart. Our goal is to individualize care for patients and their families to promote lifelong health and empower them to live their lives to the fullest. As the first program in New York State to be nationally accredited as an Adult Congenital Heart Disease Comprehensive Care Center, we are widely recognized for our commitment and dedication to our patients and our success in providing the highest quality of care to all people with adult congenital heart disease (ACHD) We care for people with all forms of ACHD, whether they were diagnosed in infancy, childhood, or adulthood. Our team partners with experts in the to help people transition to adult treatment. This collaboration allows us to determine the most appropriate treatment path for each person, based on their individual medical history and diagnosis. Expertise in Adult Congenital Heart Disease Treatment We help our patients understand congenital heart disease and its impact on their future cardiac health. There are many types of congenital heart disease, but they all result from defects in the way the heart developed before birth. These abnormalities, which prevent blood from flowing normally through the heart, include atrial and ventricular septal defects, patent ductus arteriosus, valve regurgitation or stenosis, tetralogy of Fallot, coarctation of the aorta, Ebstein anomaly, anomalous coronary arteries, anomalous pulmonary veins, transposition of the great arteries, Fontan circulation, and Eisenmenger syndrome. Managing Adult Congenital Heart Disease Our cardiac experts provide ongoing monitoring of congenital heart defects and help manage the risk of long-term complications. Learn About Our Treatment Approach Congenital heart disease can also lead to secondary conditions, including valve disease, arrhythmias, , pulmonary hypertension, and liver disease. For people who need procedures to improve or correct previous interventions, or surgery to treat new complications, we coordinate with NYU Langone’s congenital cardiothoracic surgeons. Treatments for these conditions include that maintain heart rhythm and manage heart failure, catheter-based treatments to repair valves and correct abnormal heart rhythm, implanted devices such as pacemakers and defibrillators, and surgery to repair defects in the heart and its vessels. When these treatments are no longer enough to maintain healthy cardiac function, we work with the team at to prepare you for a successful transplant and recovery. Maintaining Heart Health We encourage anyone treated for heart disease in childhood to schedule a visit with our adult congenital cardiologists. Even if it’s been years since you had surgery and have no current symptoms, you benefit from regular monitoring to prevent future complications. Pregnancy and Congenital Heart Disease People with congenital heart disease should see an adult congenital cardiologist when considering pregnancy or as soon as pregnancy is confirmed. Pregnancy can present additional risks for those with a congenital heart defect. We partner with experts in maternal–fetal medicine to provide medical guidance and treatment before, during, and after pregnancy. Transitioning to Adult Care Many of our patients come to us through NYU Langone’s Congenital Heart Transition Program , where we help teenagers move to adult care. We understand that you have a long and personal relationship with your pediatric cardiology team, and we work closely with them to understand your treatment plan and consult on future treatment. We also foster the same long-term relationships with our patients, getting to know you personally and providing care that is aligned with your health goals and future plans. Support Programs and Services We know our patients do best when they feel they are part of a community and can benefit from shared experiences. We often connect new patients with established ones for peer mentoring, and also offer support groups, educational seminars, and psychological support. Our nurse practitioners, nurses, and social workers are specially trained to understand the needs of adults with congenital heart disease, and they are key members of every patient’s care team. We see patients at multiple locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn and on Long Island. To make an appointment, please call achdprogram@nyulangone.org . If you would like to be seen urgently or learn more about our services, please request that one of our nurse practitioners call you to arrange an appointment as soon as possible. Our team is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to respond to any questions or concerns you may have. We also ensure that you are seen by one of our cardiologists within 24 hours of any hospital admission. Our physicians include cardiologists, electrophysiologists, cardiothoracic surgeons, interventional cardiologists, maternal–fetal medicine specialists, and radiologists. Dan G. Halpern Adam Small Adult Congenital Heart Disease Doctor Ralph S. Mosca Michael Argilla Pediatric Cardiologist Puneet Bhatla Frank Cecchin Larry A. Chinitz Cardiac Electrophysiologist Muhamed Saric Echocardiogram Specialist Cezar S. Staniloae We help patients move from pediatric to adult cardiac care. Learn More about the Congenital Heart Transition Program Advanced Adult Cardiac Care Noninvasive Cardiac Imaging and Testing High-Risk Pregnancy Care Our maternal–fetal medicine specialists provide monitoring and treatment through pregnancy. Learn About our Maternal–Fetal Medicine Services Email Us We can be reached by email at View All Locations (30) We have locations throughout New York City. Ultrasound is a real-time imaging technique that uses high-frequency sound waves to evaluate tissues and organs throughout the body. This type of imaging is known to be safer than because it does not use ionizing radiation. At NYU Langone, our subspecialized expert radiologists offer abdominal ultrasounds of organs including: babies in the womb bowel and appendix female pelvic ultrasound of the uterus and ovaries in a variety of situations, including pain, abnormal bleeding, and irregular menstruation gallbladder kidneys male pelvic ultrasound of the bladder and prostate musculoskeletal ultrasound of soft tissue within and around your joints including muscles, ligaments, and tendons spleen ultrasounds of newborns and children, including evaluations of the abdomen, pelvis, brain, spine, and hips Preparing for an Ultrasound Preparation for your ultrasound depends on the type of exam—our scheduling associate reviews this with you when you schedule your appointment. Some ultrasounds require fasting for several hours before the study. You should wear comfortable, loose-fitting clothing to your exam. Certain exams may require you to wear a gown, which we provide. We have private dressing rooms with lockers for your clothes and valuables, although we suggest you leave your valuables at home if possible. Bring your prescription, insurance card, and any related insurance forms or pre-approvals. Please bring previous imaging study results, such as X-ray, ultrasound, MRI scans, and CT scans, including reports, films, or CD-ROMs, if available and related to your ultrasound examination. When you schedule your appointment, our scheduling associate lets you know how early to arrive. Depending on the type of exam, this may be 30 to 60 minutes before your scheduled appointment. This allows time for registration and to complete all necessary paperwork, forms, and questionnaires. During an Ultrasound Ultrasound examinations are performed by one of our highly trained staff of sonologists or board-certified radiologists at NYU Langone. During the exam, you lie on a table or sit in a chair in one of our dedicated ultrasound rooms. First, a clear gel is applied to the area of interest, which improves the image quality of the study. Then the sonologist places an ultrasound transducer on the area of interest and saves important images. The sonologist often reviews his or her findings with the radiologist, who may do additional imaging to guarantee a complete study. A written report is sent to your referring doctor. Copies of this report should be available at your referring doctor’s office. If fluid was aspirated or a mass was biopsied, the samples are sent to our laboratory for analysis. These results are also sent to your doctor. After an Ultrasound If you are scheduled for a diagnostic study and no needles are used, then you should be able to leave without assistance immediately after the study is completed, and resume your regular daily activities without limitation. If you undergo an interventional or therapeutic ultrasound that entails an injection, aspiration, or biopsy, you are monitored for a short time after the study is completed by one of our nurses. You should be able to leave our department without assistance, although this may vary depending on the procedure you undergo. You should be able to resume your regular daily activities within one to two days. Your final instructions are given to you, including an information sheet with clear directions, at the time of your ultrasound. Our Locations (30) Breast Imaging at NYU Langone Ambulatory Surgery Center—Garden City 777 Zeckendorf Boulevard, Garden City, NY, 11530 516-663-2400 516-544-5541 We serve inpatient locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Our Inpatient Locations NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Transfer Center provides a single point of contact for referring physicians to transfer  patients from other hospitals to and within NYU Langone’s inpatient locations, including , and helps facilitate direct admissions. Members of our team include highly skilled registered nurses, therapists, and patient placement associates. In addition to transfers from hospitals outside of NYU Langone, we also support transfers between NYU Langone hospital locations, pediatric and neonatal transport , and placement of patients from the emergency department, elective admissions, surgical admissions, direct admissions, and inpatient rehabilitation admissions. We work with physicians and other healthcare providers to gather patients’ most up-to-date medical information, which is shared with NYU Langone providers to ensure that patients are transferred safely to their final location. Our team also works with insurance providers to obtain financial clearance when needed. Transfer Information for Medical Providers If you are a provider requesting an adult patient transfer to one of NYU Langone’s hospitals, please call and follow the prompts to speak with one of our nurses 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A nurse connects you with a potential accepting attending physician and, if accepted, facilitates the transfer to an NYU Langone hospital. All external transfer requests are prioritized based on patient safety. Some transfer requests require additional approvals, as well as financial clearance before transfer. Please be ready to provide the following information: patient’s name and date of birth referring hospital name, address, and phone number referring attending physician name and phone number reason for transfer patient’s medical history, including recent vital signs and the results of laboratory and other tests Transfers to Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital If you are a medical provider requesting a transfer of a pediatric patient to , please call our Pediatric and Neonatal Transport Program 855-733-5761 Referrals to Rusk Rehabilitation If you are a provider requesting an inpatient referral to Rusk Rehabilitation, please call Rusk Rehabilitation’s outreach and admissions team at 212-263-6034 . The patient’s current social worker or case manager should fax medical records to 212-263-8510 or send a referral through Allscripts. When our team receives the referral, a clinical liaison contacts the referring social worker or case manager, as well as the patient, patient’s family, or both when appropriate. To request a transfer to an NYU Langone hospital, please speak with your current care team. Only an attending physician can initiate a transfer. Specialized Care Makes NYU Langone a Go-To Destination Managing the Acute COVID-19 Patient Volume During a Pandemic Donate Remember a Loved One Ways to Give See Your Impact Get Inspired Fundraise Come Together Cardiovascular Health Your gift will help us provide the best cardiovascular care available today while developing the surgical techniques and prevention strategies of tomorrow. Heart Disease Is On the Rise Despite remarkable improvements in care, cardiovascular disease remains the single greatest threat to American public health. Every 16 seconds, someone in the United States experiences a coronary event. Experts project that more than 40 percent of the country’s population will have some form of cardiovascular disease by 2030. We’re creating and enhancing programs that are second to none. We’re bridging the gap between the laboratory and the clinic, setting the stage for extraordinary advances in patient care. Aubrey C. Galloway, MD With Your Help, We’re Making a Difference As one of the oldest cardiac clinics in the country, NYU Langone understands that a comprehensive approach—expert care, less invasive therapies, and enhanced prevention and education techniques—will reduce cardiovascular problems nationally. We’ve been innovating in cardiovascular care for more than a century. Our medical milestones include mitral valve repair and heart imaging—and in 2014, we were first in the United States to successfully implant the world’s smallest leadless cardiac pacemaker. We also excel in heart disease prevention through efforts such as childhood obesity awareness, heart health screenings for families, nutrition classes, and clinical trials. For all these reasons, NYU Langone ranks No. 5 in the nation’s cardiology and heart surgery programs according to ’s “Best Hospitals” rankings. Your support will help us climb higher and do more. Support Cardiovascular Research and Patient Care Connect developmentoffice@nyulangone.org 212-404-3640 Financial Disclosures Get Updates Visit our Facebook page Visit our Instagram page Visit our Twitter page Visit our Youtube page Scroll To Top At NYU Langone’s Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) Program, our team offers comprehensive diagnosis and therapies for the management of this condition, with the aim to improve symptoms and quality of life and reduce the risk of hospitalization. Understanding Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction Of the 6.7 million annual cases of that occur in the United States, HFpEF accounts for nearly half. By 2030, these cases are expected to go up to 8.3 million. People with HFpEF are at high risk of being hospitalized both for cardiac and non-cardiac causes. The prevalence of HFpEF is higher in women than in men, and risk increases with age. When we talk about heart failure, we often refer to ejection fraction. This is a measure of how well your heart is pumping blood to the rest of your body. In the case of HFpEF, the ejection fraction is normal, which means the heart is pumping as it should. However, the heart muscle becomes thicker and stiffer, making it hard for the heart to relax. HFpEF may present with the following symptoms: abdominal swelling exercise intolerance fatigue shortness of breath, while upright or lying flat swelling in the lower extremities Our Comprehensive Approach , we provide comprehensive, evidence-based care for people with HFpEF. Our approach focuses on improving your symptoms, enhancing your quality of life, and minimizing the need for hospital visits. To ensure you receive the most individualized and effective care, our diverse team of experts includes pulmonologists, pulmonary hypertension specialists, weight management experts, endocrinologists, nephrologists, and cardiology subspecialists including electrophysiologists and interventional cardiologists. We also offer a dedicated program that helps people with HFpEF participate in ongoing clinical trials and research studies for novel treatments and devices. We specialize in diagnosing heart failure with preserved ejection fraction and collaborate with a diverse team of experts to develop a comprehensive treatment plan. Our expert team provides compassionate, customized treatment for people with heart failure. Joan and Joel Smilow Cardiac Rehabilitation and Prevention Center 646-501-0145 If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please 646-501-0119. Heart Failure Advanced Care Center Team , our nurse practitioners, registered nurses, and social workers collaborate with our doctors to provide you with expert care and support. Our Nurse Practitioners Jennifer Pavone, MS, RN, AGACNP-BC Ms. Pavone is director of transplant operations for the . After earning a bachelor’s degree in nursing from the University of Delaware in 2010, she began her nursing career at NYU Langone in the surgical and cardiovascular intensive care unit. She joined the team in 2014 as the clinical resource nurse. In 2015, she earned a master’s degree in adult–gerontology acute care from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing. Sarah Riggio, MSN, RN, AGPCNP-BC Ms. Riggio is manager of the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and . She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing in 2011. She began her career at NYU Langone as a student nurse extern on the cardiothoracic step-down unit and worked there for seven years. She earned her master’s degree in adult–gerontology primary care from Hunter College in 2017. She began working with the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2018. Ms. Riggio is board-certified in cardiac vascular nursing and as an adult–gerontology primary care nurse practitioner. Amy Emmarco, MSN, RN, AGPCNP-BC A registered nurse and board-certified adult–gerontology primary care nurse practitioner, Ms. Emmarco has been with NYU Langone since 2008. In 2016, she joined the LVAD Program as a mechanical circulatory support clinical resource nurse. In this role, she educates our team and our patients about durable, long-term circulatory support devices. Before joining the LVAD Program team, Ms. Emmarco worked as a staff nurse on the cardiothoracic surgical step-down unit. She received her bachelor’s degree from Rutgers University and her master’s degree from William Paterson University. Ms. Emmarco is certified in cardiac vascular nursing. Maureen Geary, MSN, RN, ANP-BC Ms. Geary has been a board-certified adult nurse practitioner since 2004. She joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center team in 2014, having previously worked at a general cardiology practice in Buffalo, New York. Ms. Geary received her bachelor’s degree from Kent State University and her master’s degree in critical care nursing from Case Western Reserve University. She completed her advanced certificate studies in the adult nurse practitioner program at the University at Buffalo, part of the State University of New York. Ms. Geary is a certified heart failure nurse and a member of the Nurse Practitioner Association New York State, Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing, and the American College of Cardiology. She instructs nurse practitioner students and mentors new nurse practitioners. Sandra Landivar, MSN, RN, AGACNP-BC Ms. Landivar joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2021. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from NYU in 2015, and has worked in transplant and intensive care for her entire career. She earned a master’s degree in adult–gerontology acute care from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing in May 2020. Alaine Mulcahy, AGACNP-BC Ms. Mulcahy joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2019. Her nursing career began in 2015 in the spine and orthopedic telemetry unit at . She received her adult–gerontology acute care nurse practitioner degree from the University of Pennsylvania. Mauli Patel, MSN, RN, AGACNP-BC Ms. Patel joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center as a board-certified adult–gerontology acute care nurse practitioner in 2017. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing. She began her nursing career as a medicine and cardiology nurse in Los Angeles and worked as a registered nurse in a cardiac intensive care unit in Manhattan. Ms. Patel earned her master’s degree in nursing from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing in 2017. She also serves as an adjunct faculty member at NYU, instructing new nursing students. Rebecca Reich, MSN, RN, AGACNP-BC Ms. Reich joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2018. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from Binghamton University in 2012, and has worked in cardiology medicine and cardiothoracic surgery. She earned a master’s degree in adult–gerontology acute care from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing. Meifung Schuman, MSN, RN, AGACNP-BC Ms. Schuman joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2020 after recognizing her passion for caring for heart failure patients. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from the University of Pennsylvania in 2015 and started her nursing career in Pennyslvania before moving to New York. She earned a master’s degree in adult–gerontology acute care from the University of Pennslyvania in 2019. Shanah Strumeier, MSN, RN, AGPCNP Ms. Strumeier joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2018. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from the College of Mount Saint Vincent and master’s degree in nursing from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing. She received a bachelor’s degree in speech and hearing sciences–audiology and psychology from Indiana University. She began her nursing career at NYU Langone in the cardiovascular special care unit. Ms. Strumeier is board-certified as an adult–gerontology primary care nurse practitioner. Our Registered Nurses Alyssa Amerosa, BSN, RN Ms. Amerosa is a registered nurse in the Heart Failure and CardioMEMS program. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from Wilkes University in 2014. Before coming to NYU Langone, she worked for five years as a charge nurse in a coronary care and cardiovascular intensive care unit. Ms. Amerosa joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center in 2019. Josephine Quinlan, MS, RN-BC Mrs. Quinlan is a registered nurse and board-certified in cardiac vascular nursing. She received her bachelor’s degree from The College of New Rochelle and her master’s degree in nursing education from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing. She has been with NYU Langone since 2009 and started her career in the cardiothoracic surgical unit. In 2018, Mrs. Quinlan took on the role of nurse navigator on NYU Langone’s decompensated heart failure team. In this role, she provides education to patients who have been diagnosed with heart failure and coordinates patient care after hospital discharge with other members of the decompensated heart failure team, which includes the nurse practitioner, social worker, and pharmacist. MaryGladys San Agustin, BSN, RN, CCRN Ms. San Agustin is the clinical coordinator of the heart transplant program. She educates patients and their families on the pretransplant evaluation process and post-transplant care. Before coming to NYU Langone, she worked as an emergency department staff nurse and in the cardiothoracic recovery room. Ms. San Agustin earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from the University of the City of Manila and is a certified member of American Association of Critical Care Nurses. Our Social Workers Stefanie Philipson, MSW Ms. Philipson joined the LVAD Program and Heart Failure Advanced Care Center team in 2013. She studied at the State University of New York at Albany and received her master’s degree in social work from Columbia University. Ms. Philipson started her career at NYC Health + Hospitals/Elmhurst. She joined NYU Langone in 2001, starting in transplant surgery. Dale Schneitzer, MSW, LCSW Ms. Schneitzer received her master’s degree in social work from NYU. She is a senior clinician and has worked in surgery, surgical oncology, heart failure, transplant, and hematology and oncology. She joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center and NYU Langone Transplant Institute in 2017. Ms. Schneitzer has received advanced training in psychotherapy and maintains a mental health practice in New York City. Rebecca Hausman, LCSW Ms. Hausman joined the heart failure team as a licensed clinical social worker in 2018. She has since become integrated into the heart transplant team and LVAD Program. She also serves as the social worker for the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center outpatient office. After earning her undergraduate degree from the University of Michigan and master’s degree in social work from NYU, she started her career at NYU Langone in 2014. She worked on internal medicine and general surgery before her current role. The media relations staff at NYU Langone Health is committed to responding quickly to news media requests and facilitating interviews with our nationally respected experts in virtually every area of clinical care, biomedical research, and medical education. Please choose an area below to find the right member of our team to assist you: Clinical Areas Institutional Matter s All Outpatient Locations, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Department of Population Health General and pressing after-hours inquiries from members of the media should be sent to News@NYULangone.org or by calling 212-404-3500 , although email is recommended. interview and filming policies Media Contacts Staff for Clinical Areas Marlene Naanes Director Clinical areas: orthopedic surgery, Sports Center, Concussion Center, rheumatology, plastic surgery, rehabilitation medicine 646-754-5016 Marlene.Naanes@NYULangone.org Katie Ullman Senior Manager Clinical areas: cardiology, cardiothoracic surgery, pediatrics and Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, child and adolescent psychiatry, and endocrinology, diabetes, and metabolism 212-404-3511 Kathryn.Ullman@NYULangone.org Colin DeVries Manager Clinical areas: neurology, neurosurgery, transplant surgery, surgery, ophthalmology, and anesthesiology, perioperative care, and pain medicine 212-404-3588 Colin.DeVries@NYULangone.org Ryan Dziuba Clinical areas: Perlmutter Cancer Center, emergency medicine, psychiatry, infectious disease and immunology, and pulmonary, critical care, and sleep medicine 212-404-4131 Ryan.Dziuba@NYULangone.org Lacy Scarmana Clinical areas: obstetrics and gynecology, otolaryngology, gastroenterology and hepatology, and bariatrics 646-754-7367 Lacy.Scarmana@NYULangone.org Casey Nicholl Coordinator Clinical areas: general internal medicine and innovation, dermatology, urology, nephrology, and geriatric medicine and palliative care 212-404-5424 Casey.Nicholl@NYULangone.org Media Contacts Staff for Research Greg Williams Associate Director Clinical area: Radiology 212-404-3533 Gregory.Williams@NYULangone.org David March 212-404-3528 David.March@NYULangone.org Shira Polan 212-404-4279 Shira.Polan@NYULangone.org Media Contacts for Institutional Matters Steve Ritea Senior Director 212-404-3525 Steve.Ritea@NYULangone.org Arielle Sklar 646-960-2696 Arielle.Sklar@NYULangone.org Media Contacts for All Outpatient Locations, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island James Iorio Locations: NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, Brooklyn, and Suffolk County 646-530-2710 James.Iorio@NYULangone.org Rosemary Gomez Locations: NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and Nassau County 516-663-2709 Rosemary.Gomez@NYULangone.org Media Contact for NYU Grossman School of Medicine Media Contact for NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Media Contact for the Department of Population Health Sasha Walek 646-501-3873 Sasha.Walek@NYULangone.org Interview & Filming Policies Robotic Surgery Center What Is Robotic Surgery Our Team Approach Robotic Surgery for Cancers & Tumors Robotic Surgery for Obesity Robotic Surgery for Airway, Breathing & Lung Conditions Robotic Surgery for Head & Neck Conditions Robotic Surgery for Heart Conditions Robotic Surgery for Digestive & Gastrointestinal Conditions Robotic Surgery for Female Reproductive & Sexual Health Conditions Robotic Surgery for Benign Conditions of the Urinary Tract is internationally known for our robotically assisted cardiac surgery program. Surgeons from have performed more than 1,200 procedures to date, including mitral valve repair , cardiac tumor removal, and Robotically assisted heart surgery is performed through five small incisions placed between the ribs on the side of the chest. Your doctor uses the incisions to guide small surgical tools and a high-definition camera into the chest. A robotic approach allows for a quicker, easier recovery because there is less blood loss, less scarring, less pain, and a lower risk of infection than traditional surgical techniques. Robotic Mitral Valve Repair Techniques Cardiac surgeons at NYU Langone’s are worldwide leaders in robotic mitral valve repair, which is a procedure to repair a valve that has been weakened by mitral valve disease. VIDEO: Robotic mitral valve repair Robotic Cardiac Tumor Removal Robotically assisted surgery can be used to treat cardiac tumors, also known as myxoma. Most cardiac tumors are small, non-cancerous, and do not cause symptoms. However they have to be removed because they can grow and affect how blood flows through the heart and lead to . Using a robotic approach to tumor removal allows for an extremely precise excision technique that targets all of the existing tumor cells without the need for open heart surgery. Robotic Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery Our surgeons have made great strides in improving minimally invasive approaches to , including robotically assisted procedures. Our robotic cardiac surgeons partner with our interventional cardiologists to perform a hybrid procedure that combines noninvasive angioplasty, used to open blocked arteries, with a minimally invasive coronary bypass procedure. VIDEO: When Jay Potter was diagnosed with a severe heart murmur, Dr. Didier Loulmet treated him using minimally invasive robotic heart surgery. This approach restores blood flow to a patient’s heart through previously clogged arteries without having to cut through the chest bone or place the patient on a heart–lung machine. Our robotic surgical team includes Dr. Didier F. Loulmet Dr. Eugene A. Grossi Dr. Loulmet performed, along with Professor Alain Carpentier, the first robotic mitral valve repair procedure in 1998. He also performed the first totally endoscopic robotic coronary artery bypass graft surgery. He is a pioneer in the development of robotic cardiac procedures. Dr. Grossi is a leader in the development of minimally invasive mitral valve repair and one of the earliest investigators of robotically assisted mitral valve repair techniques. To make an appointment or learn more about our services, please call 212-263-2329 Stroke Treatment Outcomes at NYU Langone Doctors at NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Stroke Center act quickly after diagnosing a stroke . Within four and a half hours of the first symptoms, people who have a blood clot in an artery supplying blood to the brain may receive a clot-busting medication , also known as thrombolytic therapy. This is administered through a vein. Our experts from NYU Langone’s can also begin more advanced treatment, such as removal of a brain clot, as needed. Learn more about stroke treatment and outcomes at NYU Langone, which is certified by The Joint Commission as a Comprehensive Stroke Center. Rate of Treatment with Thrombolytic Therapy More people are treated with thrombolytic therapy at NYU Langone when compared with other hospitals as a whole in New York State and other hospitals that are certified as comprehensive stroke centers by The Joint Commission. Time to Treatment with Thrombolytic Therapy For every minute the brain is deprived of blood due to a blockage, 2 million brain cells are lost. Therefore, it is best for patients to receive thrombolytic therapy as quickly as possible—ideally less than 60 minutes after arriving at the emergency room. The average time to treatment for patients at NYU Langone is 35 minutes. Time to Treatment with Clot Retrieval Several randomized trials have demonstrated improved neurological outcomes when patients receive thrombolytic therapy in combination with a clot retrieval procedure , in which the clot that is blocking blood flow to the brain is removed. This is done using a series of catheters that are inserted into an artery with X-ray guidance. It is best to start treatment as soon as possible—ideally less than 90 minutes after arriving at the emergency room. The median time to treatment, meaning an artery is punctured to begin the clot retrieval, at NYU Langone is 71 minutes. Restoration of Blood Flow from a Blockage Successfully removing a blood clot through clot retrieval restores blood flow to the brain. Clinical trials have shown that patients who have blood flow restored have better outcomes and less disability after a stroke. NYU Langone experts have successfully restored blood flow in more patients when compared with other hospitals in  New York State as a whole, and other hospitals certified as comprehensive stroke centers by The Joint Commission. 212-263-7149 Family & Lifestyle Support If you or a relative has been diagnosed with a heart rhythm condition that runs in the family, doctors at NYU Langone’s Inherited Arrhythmia Program can provide treatment and VIDEO: Doctors at the Inherited Arrhythmia Program provide treatment and support for patients and their families. A genetic heart rhythm disorder, also known as an inherited arrhythmia, can be diagnosed at any age. Some people first learn of their condition after experiencing the symptoms of an irregular heartbeat, which include heart palpitations, fainting, and heart attack. Others are diagnosed after genetic testing confirms they carry the same gene that caused a relative’s abnormal heart rhythm. can also be a sign of an inherited arrhythmia, especially in people who do not have coronary artery disease. Our program, part of the , is one of the most established and experienced programs for people with inherited arrhythmias. Our electrophysiologists, genetic counselors, genetic researchers, and nurse practitioners coordinate with teams throughout NYU Langone to ensure you receive the highest level of cardiovascular care. We provide skilled, advanced care for people with all forms of arrhythmia. Diagnosing Inherited Arrhythmia There are many types of inherited arrhythmias, and they generally fall into two categories: channelopathies and cardiomyopathies. Channelopathies are conditions that can lead to potentially life-threatening heart rhythms. The following are some examples of channelopathies: QT-related syndromes, including long or short QT, that trigger arrhythmia when the heart speeds up, such as during emotional stress, exercise, and extreme surprise, or during sleep when the heart rate slows Brugada syndrome, in which arrhythmia is typically triggered during sleep or rest catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT), which causes abnormally fast and irregular heart rhythm in response to physical activity such as exercise or sports idiopathic ventricular fibrillation that occurs spontaneously and has no known cause Cardiomyopathies, including , arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC), and dilated cardiomyopathy, cause the heart muscle to thicken or dilate and be less effective at pumping blood through the body. Many times, the first presentation of a cardiomyopathy is an abnormal heart rhythm. Proper diagnosis of inherited heart disorders requires clinical expertise, skilled imaging technology, and advanced genetic testing. After we identify the genetic cause of your condition, we determine the best treatment based on your symptoms, age, and lifestyle. Treatment for Inherited Arrhythmia After you are diagnosed with an inherited arrhythmia, our team determines the treatment best suited for your particular type. For some, lifestyle changes, medication, and routine follow-up appointments are sufficient to maintain heart health. Others require intervention such as a catheter ablation, in which heat is used to eliminate cells in the heart that are triggering an abnormal heart rhythm, or an implantable device. This can be a pacemaker, through which gentle electrical pulses are used to maintain regular heart rhythm, or an implantable cardioverter defibrillator, which instantly delivers a dose of electric current to revert the heart to normal rhythm and may be required for protection against sudden cardiac arrest. If your condition is best treated with a , we coordinate with specialists at NYU Langone’s Our team of electrophysiologists and genetic specialists pinpoint the cause of your arrhythmia and provide the necessary treatment. Lior Jankelson Director, Inherited Arrhythmia Program Director, Heart Rhythm Center Anthony Aizer Associate Director, Heart Rhythm Center Douglas S. Holmes Chirag R. Barbhaiya Scott A. Bernstein Thomas Bustros David S. Park Michael Spinelli 9 Our program is accredited by the Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Association as a Center of Excellence. We provide ongoing care for people born with heart defects. We provide transplant care for people experiencing heart failure. hosts free educational events throughout the year through our Heart Health Lecture Series. Launched in 2015 under the direction of cardiologist Dennis A. Goodman, MD , director of integrative medicine at NYU Langone’s Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology , this patient education initiative focuses on helping you take control of your heart health and work toward a healthier future. Presented via webinar, the Heart Health Lecture Series covers topics such as sleep, nutrition, exercise, , and stress. The series also highlights the latest information related to the conditions that increase cardiovascular disease risk such as , autoimmune conditions, thrombotic disorders, and . Our expert speakers present the latest clinical information on scientific research, offer suggestions for better health, and provide dedicated time to answer questions from webinar participants. Upcoming Heart Health Lectures Registration is required for our webinars, which are free. For more information about upcoming programs, or to subscribe to our events calendar, email Pregnancy and Your Heart Between 10 and 15 percent of pregnancies have at least one complication linked to increased risk of developing heart disease after childbirth. The cardiovascular complications associated with high-risk pregnancies may include high blood pressure, pre-eclampsia or gestational diabetes. Adverse pregnancy outcomes are lifelong risk factors for cardiovascular disease. The postpartum period and the first decade after giving birth are important periods for optimizing cardiovascular health and preventing future cardiovascular disease. Join NYU Langone cardiologist Anaïs Hausvater, MD , for the latest information on pregnancy and heart health. Dr. Hausvater will discuss the importance of personalized screening and treatment approaches to ensure that pregnancies at risk for cardiovascular complications are properly managed to optimize the health of the mother and child. Cardiologist and moderator Dennis A. Goodman, MD, will facilitate the discussion and questions from the audience. Date: Wednesday, November 20, 2024 Time: 5:00–6:00 PM Register Online: https://bit.ly/40mJEHt Genetics in Heart Disease and Cancer The rapidly advancing field of genetics now offers patients insights into their risk for various heart conditions and certain types of cancers. Join NYU Langone clinical geneticist Meenakshi Sigireddi, MD, and NYU Langone cardiologist William L. Blau, MD , for an engaging discussion on the current landscape and future of genetic testing. Our experts will highlight the latest advancements in genetic testing for assessing risks of cardiovascular disease and cancer, two of the primary causes of death in the United States. Cardiologist Dennis A. Goodman, MD, will serve as moderator, guiding the discussion and addressing questions from the audience. Date: Tuesday, December 10, 2024 Time: 5:00–6:00PM https://bit.ly/3UB4xLA Watch Our Previous Lectures Select Heart Health Lectures can be viewed on NYU Langone’s YouTube channel. Visit our Heart Health Lecture Series playlist to view our lecture video library and to check for new content. Examples of our lectures include the following: Eating Well in a Time Crunch Cholesterol: The Good, The Bad, and Lipoprotein (a) The Environment’s Role in Cardiovascular Disease Women’s Heart Health: Understanding Your Risk Register for Information and Updates Prevention Pulse , the Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease newsletter, provides information on important topics in heart health as well as recipes, event information, program updates, and the latest clinical and scientific research news. To subscribe to our quarterly digital newsletter and receive Heart Health Lecture Series announcements, please send your name and email address to Frequently Asked Questions About Heart Health Experts from NYU Langone’s answer common questions about heart health and preventing heart attacks. What is the link between cholesterol and heart disease? Many years of scientific studies have shown a close relationship between cardiovascular disease and cholesterol levels. Your doctor may request a lipid profile—a test that shows the levels of LDL (bad cholesterol), HDL (good cholesterol), and triglycerides in your blood—to assess your risk for developing If my body makes its own cholesterol, why does my diet matter? When we measure cholesterol levels in your blood, what we see is a combination of what your body makes and what you eat. Because you cannot control how much cholesterol your body produces, other than with medications, restricting saturated fat in your diet can have a major impact on lowering your cholesterol. Should I focus on lowering my dietary cholesterol or saturated fat? Limiting saturated and trans fats in your diet has the biggest impact on lowering your cholesterol. Restricting fatty meats, choosing low-fat or nonfat dairy products, and avoiding butter and margarine play a major role in helping to maintain healthy cholesterol levels. In addition, a diet high in fiber, particularly soluble fiber, can lower cholesterol levels significantly. Weight loss also can be an important part of your overall strategy to lower your cholesterol, including triglycerides, which should stay low, too. If my cholesterol is less than 200mg/dl, should I worry about heart disease? Even though you have low total cholesterol levels you can still be at an increased risk for heart disease, especially if you have a family history of vascular disease that begins at an early age. Your risk also increases if you have metabolic syndrome, which is defined by having three or more of the following: abdominal obesity, meaning your waist is more than 40 inches for men or 34 inches for women blood pressure over 130/85 triglycerides over 150 HDL less than 50 in a woman or less than 40 in a man high blood sugar levels Can taking fish oil capsules lower my cholesterol? No. Fish oil has the ability to lower triglycerides, but not LDL cholesterol. However, there may be other potentially protective effects from fish oil, such as making your blood less likely to clot. After you have a heart attack, is it too late to benefit from cholesterol-lowering drugs? No, it’s never too late to benefit from cholesterol-lowering drugs. After you’ve had a heart attack, using cholesterol-lowering drugs such as statins may significantly lower your chances of having another heart attack or . If you have not had a heart attack, but are at increased risk of heart disease or show early evidence of plaque in your arteries, a cholesterol-lowering drug may help prevent a heart attack or stroke. If I don't smoke and my cholesterol is within normal limits, what impact does my family history of heart attack have on my risk? Having a family history of a first-degree relative—your mother, father, or sibling—with a heart attack before age 55 for a man or 65 for a woman is a major risk factor for developing heart disease and stroke. Keep in mind that low cholesterol levels may not be what they seem—low HDL, the “protective” cholesterol, may keep your overall levels down, but that is not beneficial. Other factors such as diet, exercise, and smoking are also of significant importance to those with a family history of heart disease. If I am on a statin, should I worry about a high-fat diet? Yes. Although statins lower your cholesterol and reduce your risk of a heart attack, studies have shown that the amount of saturated fat you eat correlates with the progression of plaque buildup in your arteries, which can cause a heart attack or stroke. There is also evidence that high fat levels in your blood after eating a meal high in saturated fat can interfere with some of the protective function of the cells that line your arteries. Should I worry about possible liver damage from taking statin medications? The frequency of liver problems with statin therapy is actually quite low. Less than 1 percent of people have to stop taking statins because they develop liver problems. Long-term trials have confirmed the safety of statins—the latest guidelines do not suggest a need to monitor people on statins who have normal liver function. In addition, in some cases where there is evidence of fat deposits in the liver, statin therapy may actually improve liver function tests. Doctors at the Postpartum Cardiovascular Health Program use early detection to identify people who are at high risk of developing hypertension , heart disease, and after childbirth. Make an Appointment To make an appointment with the Postpartum Cardiovascular Health Program, please call Your chance of developing a cardiovascular condition rises after having a high-risk . A high-risk pregnancy can include complications such as gestational diabetes , high blood pressure, or preeclampsia. Our preventive cardiologists and maternal–fetal medicine doctors can create a care plan for you that uses prevention strategies and personalized treatments to support your heart health after pregnancy. High-Risk Pregnancy and Cardiovascular Risk After Childbirth Pregnancy offers insights into a person’s long-term cardiovascular health. Despite having no other risk factors for heart disease, people who are pregnant and have complications are at a higher risk of developing postpartum cardiovascular disease. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 20 hospitals in the nation for obstetrics and gynecology and the No. 2 hospital in the nation for cardiology and heart surgery. In the United States, cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death during pregnancy and following childbirth. Between 10 and 15 percent of pregnancies have at least one complication linked to developing heart disease after childbirth. High blood pressure alone during pregnancy puts a person at increased risk for chronic high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, and other cardiovascular conditions during the postpartum period and at an earlier age than expected. These complications can arise within a decade of having a baby. These risks are even higher in Black people, and our doctors are committed to creating a supportive care environment to address these challenges. Personalized Cardiovascular Care After Pregnancy At the Postpartum Cardiovascular Health Program, our doctors develop a personalized treatment plan to support your heart health after pregnancy. Patients are referred to our program three months after delivering a baby. At this point, elevated cholesterol, increased blood volume, and other biological factors unique to pregnancy are no longer present. Our doctors monitor and manage high blood pressure and lipid disorders, such as high cholesterol , that contribute to early and stroke. We also treat postpartum cardiomyopathy, or weakening of the heart muscle, which is a rare complication that can develop in the last month of pregnancy and up to five months after delivery. Our care plans for postpartum cardiovascular conditions may include the following strategies: stress reduction weight management nutritional counseling physical activity getting enough sleep taking medication If you are planning to conceive again, we offer consultations beforehand to optimize your cardiovascular health. In addition, we partner with doctors at NYU Langone’s Cardio-Obstetrics Program to provide education about heart health and create preventive care plans for people who are currently pregnant or want to become pregnant for the first time. To make an appointment with a provider at the Postpartum Cardiovascular Health Program, please call The care team from the Cardio-Rheumatology Program helps people who are living with and rheumatic conditions lower their risk of , heart attack, and U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 10 hospitals in the nation for rheumatology. Psoriasis, an autoimmune condition that affects the skin, and rheumatic conditions such as psoriatic arthritis rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus can lead to inflammation throughout the body, including the cardiovascular system. This inflammation can contribute to , abnormal cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and plaque buildup in the coronary arteries, called atherosclerosis. As plaque forms, these vessels narrow, increasing a person’s cardiovascular risk. Doctors from the Cardio-Rheumatology Program, part of the , provide personalized risk assessments and encourage evaluation even for people who believe they are too young to develop heart disease. People with psoriasis and rheumatic conditions can have up to a five-fold increased risk of heart disease compared to people without these diseases, and they tend to develop atherosclerosis at earlier ages than the general population. During your cardiovascular risk assessment, we perform cholesterol blood pressure blood sugar testing and, when needed, cardiac imaging. This includes carotid artery ultrasound cardiac calcium scoring to evaluate plaque buildup in the carotid and coronary arteries, respectively. We also talk with you about your lifestyle, including the role and exercise play in improving your heart health. Based on our conversations, the testing and imaging results, and understanding of your underlying condition, we develop a plan that is focused on reducing your risk of heart disease. To schedule an appointment at the Cardio-Rheumatology Program, please call us at For general information, please email program director Dr. Michael S. Garshick CVDPrevention@NYULangone.org Prospective and existing suppliers can learn more about conducting business with NYU Langone Health. COVID-19 Policies for Vendors and Suppliers All contractors are expected to comply with NYU Langone Health’s COVID-19 policies and are required to receive the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine by September 27, 2021, and the second dose by October 25, 2021. If necessary, contractors must contact their employer to seek a medical exemption. NYU Langone reserves the right to review any approved exemption to ensure that we can accommodate that exemption. Any contractor who is not fully vaccinated is required to take a biweekly nasopharyngeal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test . If a contractor does not take their biweekly PCR test, they will be removed from the premises. Information for Prospective Suppliers Any payee by NYU Langone is considered a supplier. NYU Langone only pays approved suppliers. Approved suppliers are those companies NYU Langone wishes to do business with that: have completed an electronic New Supplier Application have provided a current Form W-8BEN or W-9 during that process are not under federal indictment or under other financial sanctions If an individual passes the requirements of an independent contractor, as defined by the Internal Revenue Service, and is not engaging in services that may be considered employment, he or she may complete an Independent Contractor Questionnaire that will be approved and evaluated by NYU Langone. Payee Registration and Management All suppliers and service providers, also referred to as payees, must be invited to register with PaymentWorks. Existing payees who do not have a PaymentWorks account must request an invitation from their contact at NYU Langone. PaymentWorks invitations are reviewed by the appropriate parties within the organization, which are dependent upon the type of goods or services provided. PaymentWorks registration requires tax ID information, banking information, and any other key data that is necessary to validate the identity of the payee. It is critical that payees complete the registration process accurately and in a timely fashion. PaymentWorks validation specialists review all payee registrations. After registration is approved, payees can manage their account information as needed. For PaymentWorks support, email Support@PaymentWorks.com Terms and Conditions Purchase Orders Even when a contract is signed, NYU Langone requires a purchase order (PO) in order to facilitate payment of invoices. Purchase orders must be referenced on every invoice. Orders for goods and services must be made via PO, or a contract supported by a PO, and placed by our purchasing department. Department personnel may only place orders provided they have a standing PO for services. Purchase Order Acknowledgements NYU Langone requires that suppliers acknowledge POs, including POs for services to be used for billing. Suppliers not having accurate PO numbers will result in delay of processing of invoices and payment. Payment Terms NYU Langone’s standard payment terms are 45 days for new suppliers, unless consideration is offered in the form of contract pricing, in which both consideration and payment terms shall be agreed upon upfront in the contract. It is permissible to have standard payment terms established for a supplier and subsequent contracts, depending on the goods and or services provided, may carry nonstandard payment terms. Vendormate NYU Langone’s supplier credentialing program is a mandatory program designed to ensure the safety of our patients and staff while conducting business with outside companies. This also insures that the companies that NYU Langone does business with are not a risk to the financial well-being of the institution and that NYU Langone Health meets its obligations to the regulatory and compliance laws of the industry. Vendormate is a company that is responsible for gathering, compiling, reviewing, and storing data from suppliers to ensure they meet the criteria to maintain the ability to do business with NYU Langone. We request that all suppliers register with Vendormate. Even if the vendor does not come on site, we request that the vendor register and be compliant with the program, which carries an annual fee, none of which is paid to NYU Langone. Invoices NYU Langone requires goods and services be billed on unique invoices, in a manner that does not lead to duplicate invoicing. The following key fields must be present on an invoice in order for it to be applied to a PO for payment: company name unique invoice/document number invoice date PO number a description of services or the quantity and price of goods delivered remittance address, even required when payment is by Automated Clearing House (ACH) Invoice Submission Invoices, with a PO number referenced, should be submitted electronically. Based upon the anticipated volume of activities, we ask that you either participate in one of our established programs for submitting invoices or that you email PDF images, with each invoice being its own PDF document, to NYU Langone Health at NYULMC@DigiScribe.info . Suppliers should not send invoices to individual departments within the respective organizations or their satellite offices, as that will further delay processing and payments. Payments NYU Langone issues payments for invoices based on vendor net terms, or when applicable, net terms specified in a contract as evident on an NYU Langone-issued PO. In support of go-green initiatives and in an effort to reduce the risk of lost checks, we encourage our vendors to take advantage of electronic payments via the United States American Bankers Association ACH. A remittance notification is emailed for every disbursement detailing the invoices paid on the ACH payment. Environmental and Socially Responsible Procurement NYU Langone prides itself on efforts to be as environmentally and socially responsible as possible. View our full Noninvasive Cardiac Imaging & Testing 212-263-5664 212-263-8461 Our cardiologists at specialize in using two- and three-dimensional echocardiography to diagnose and manage conditions that affect the way blood moves through your heart. We provide care to patients hospitalized for treatment as well as to those being cared for as outpatients. Using these advanced imaging techniques, our cardiologists perform noninvasive and minimally invasive procedures, such as cardiac catheterization and open heart surgery, to diagnose and help manage heart conditions that previously would have required invasive techniques. These conditions include atrial fibrillation congenital heart defects in adults We also provide noninvasive diagnostic testing when you experience symptoms related to coronary heart disease, such as , atherosclerosis, and blood clots. Our specialists at NYU Langone Heart help to manage symptoms related to coronary artery disease. Types of Echocardiography Our cardiologists use three forms of echocardiography: Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE), the most common form, is performed by moving a transducer across your chest to create a two- or three-dimensional picture of the beating heart. Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) is an internal exam performed with mild sedation, in which a scope with a tiny camera at the end is moved down the throat. This provides our doctors with clearer pictures of the aorta and structures at the back of the heart than can be obtained with transthoracic echocardiogram. Stress echocardiography compares pictures of your heart at rest with pictures of your heart after moderate exercise. Echocardiograms are available to both inpatients and outpatients. Additional Noninvasive Cardiac Tests We also provide the following noninvasive cardiac tests: Vascular ultrasound allows doctors to detect blood clots and blockages in the arteries and veins throughout the body, including in the aorta, carotid, and renal arteries, and in vessels in the legs and arms. Holter monitoring is performed by placing on your chest painless electronic leads, which are connected to a monitor you carry for 24 to 48 hours. The monitor collects information about your heart’s electrical activity and can detect conditions affecting the speed and rhythm of your heartbeat. Echocardiogram strain imaging allows doctors to evaluate how well the heart muscle is functioning. It is most commonly performed to monitor heart health in people receiving chemotherapy, as well as in those with cardiomyopathy or heart failure. When performed on an outpatient basis, most echocardiography procedures take about one hour. Because mild sedation is necessary with a transesophageal echocardiogram, this procedure requires an additional two hour recovery time. Our testing facilities have received echocardiography accreditation from the Intersocietal Accreditation Commission and are accredited by the American College of Radiology. Our cardiologists are specially trained in noninvasive cardiac techniques. Edward J. Bernaski John A. Dodson Robert M. Donnino RF Robin S. Freedberg Albert S. Jung Eugene E. Kim AN Ambika C. Nayar Adriana Quinones-Camacho Roxana Vartolomei Our Affiliated Cardiac Programs If you have been diagnosed with heart failure, we can provide the treatment and education you need to live life to its fullest. We are world leaders in the treatment of heart valve disease. Puzzling Symptoms Lead Neurologists to Translational Finding Autonomic Disorders Research Informs New Treatment Pathways Test May Find Early Sign of Neurological Disease A Tiny Worm Offers a Surprising Window Onto the Brain Our Adult Congenital Heart Disease Specialists Congenital heart disease is most often diagnosed in childhood, but the medical needs are lifelong. NYU Langone’s brings together a team of medical experts to help you maintain your overall health and provides you with specialized care if an emergency arises. Learn more about our adult congenital heart disease experts. Congenital Cardiology Dan G. Halpern, MD Adam Small, MD Cardiothoracic Surgery Ralph S. Mosca, MD T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD Electrophysiology Frank Cecchin, MD Larry A. Chinitz, MD Interventional Cardiology Michael Argilla, MD Sunil Saharan, MD Cezar S. Staniloae, MD Mathew R. Williams, MD Randal I. Goldberg, MD Alex Reyentovich, MD Imaging Puneet Bhatla, MD Muhamed Saric, MD, PhD Pediatric Cardiology Reproductive Services Meghana Limaye, MD Young Mi Lee, MD Christina A. Penfield, MD Ashley S. Roman, MD We have locations throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Diagnosis & Treatment Preparing for Your Cardiac Catheterization Procedure Interventional Cardiology Experts Each year, our interventional cardiologists perform 20,000 cardiac catheterization procedures. Advanced Cardiac Care Our doctors excel in treating complex blockages in the arteries of the heart, legs, kidneys, and neck, including chronic total occlusion. , our interventional cardiologists provide minimally invasive, catheter-based techniques to prevent, diagnose, and treat cardiovascular disease, including peripheral artery disease , and heart valve disease. We also provide emergency treatment for people experiencing life-threatening events, such as heart attack. Innovation in Heart Disease Care Our doctors lead research into next-generation stent technology and improving our understanding and management of heart disease. Learn About Our Cardiology Research Our researchers continually work to improve how we treat heart diseases, helping us provide the most innovative diagnostic and interventional cardiac catheterization techniques in our laboratory. Our interventional cardiologists provide treatment for the most complex, high-risk blockages. During cardiac catheterization, our specialists guide a long, hollow tube called a catheter through a vessel in the groin or the arm to reach the vessels of the heart. The catheter allows interventional cardiologists to use special tools to look for blocked arteries through a coronary angiogram or other diagnostic tests, and when necessary, perform procedures such as stenting to restore healthy blood flow. Your doctor will discuss with you how to prepare for cardiac catheterization and what to expect during and after the procedure. Based on the diagnosis, your doctor may recommend specific treatment or interventional procedures such as stenting to open blockages. As soon as a diagnosis is made, our doctors explain treatment options to you and begin the interventional procedure. Our Locations We provide cardiac catheterization at the following laboratory locations: in Manhattan We care for patients who are experiencing heart attacks or other cardiac events at the emergency departments at Routine and scheduled catheterizations are coordinated by your referring physician, who helps you make an appointment. Doctors at the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory help people with a wide variety of cardiovascular conditions achieve the very best recovery outcome with the lowest risk. Sunil Rao Director, Interventional Cardiology, NYU Langone Health Atul Sharma Director, Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Michael J. Attubato Anvar Babaev Ramanjit Bagga Sripal Bangalore Marian David Shilpa A. DeSouza Pulmonary Hypertension Specialist Joshua R. Deleon Daniel Donohue Ayman Farid George Fernaine MD, MBA Christopher L. Gade Anthony T. Gambino WH Wissam N. Hoyek Timothy G. Jayasundera Waqas Khan Kevin P. Marzo Thao Ngo Sameet Palkhiwala Stylianos P. Papadakos Arthur Rusovici View All 38 Doctors & 38 Our surgeons are pioneers in the use of transcatheter-based, minimally invasive techniques to treat mitral valve disease and aortic valve disease. Learn More About the Heart Valve Center We provide advanced treatment for all types of heart rhythm disorders, including atrial fibrillation. Our caring team helps determine the best treatment for your unique heart condition. Our doctors are among the most experienced in the country and have treated thousands of people with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Learn More About the Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Program We are accredited by the Adult Congenital Heart Association as an Adult Congenital Heart Disease Comprehensive Care Center. Learn More About the Adult Congenital Heart Disease Program Our specialized team of doctors is dedicated to preventing and reversing cardiovascular disease. Leading the Nation with Lowest Heart Attack Mortality Family Travel Clinic Prepares College Students for Travel Health Safety Tips for Summer Travel from NYU Winthrop Support During ECMO It can be stressful when your loved one is receiving mechanical circulatory support or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) treatment. ECMO is used after other treatments for the heart and lungs, including medications, extra oxygen, or a mechanical ventilator, have not been enough to help the body heal. ECMO is a heart–lung support device that takes over the work of those organs, so they can heal. Tubing, monitors, and machines are part of the treatment, and your loved one might look different due to swelling related to the treatment. These physical changes usually go away after ECMO treatment is complete. How the ECMO Procedure Works A surgeon threads plastic tubes, called cannulas, through blood vessels in the patient’s neck, chest, or leg, connecting them to the heart. One tube brings blood to the ECMO machine, where it receives oxygen. The other tube returns blood to the body. Often another small tube goes from the mouth or nose to the stomach to provide nutrition to patients who are unable to eat solid food during ECMO care. Throughout treatment, an intensive care unit nurse monitors the patient at all times. Some patients may be unconscious, because they have received a medication that makes them sleep. This reduces the amount of oxygen they need, which helps in the healing process. However, some patients may be able to participate in physical therapy while on ECMO support. Any procedures or tests the patient may need are often done at the bedside. If that is not possible, the ECMO team travels with the patient to ensure their safe care. The amount of time that patients receive ECMO support depends on the extent of their illness. To ease your concerns about ECMO care, we encourage you to participate in daily rounds, where you can meet your loved one’s care team. The care team is made up of highly trained specialists, including doctors, nurses, respiratory therapists, and perfusionists, who operate the ECMO machines. Feel free to ask questions and share with us any information you think might be important for your loved one’s care. Supporting Patients and Families During ECMO We encourage you to visit your loved one in accordance with our visitor guidelines . When patients are sleeping, you can still talk to them, play music, or simply sit and be a calming presence. We also offer that ease stress, and guidance from . It is also important to remember to take care of your own needs, making sure you get the rest and proper meals you need to stay healthy and strong during this stressful time. After our medical team transitions your loved one from the treatment, ongoing care is often required, including additional mechanical circulatory support devices or a ventilator to assist the heart and lungs as your loved one regains strength. The length of this process is unique to each person. We encourage you to talk to our medical team for more information. Treatment at the Adult ECMO Program , our team uses mechanical circulatory support and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) to take over the work of a person’s heart and lungs, allowing them to heal. Mechanical circulatory support and ECMO can help treat people experiencing cardiogenic shock related to or heart attack, or acute respiratory failure related to acute respiratory distress syndrome, lung failure, pneumonia, or . These types of treatments can last a few hours or for up to a few weeks. Our medical team at transitions patients from the treatment as soon as it is safe to do so. There are two main types of ECMO devices: venoarterial ECMO, which supports both the heart and lungs, and venovenous ECMO, which mainly supports the lungs. A mechanical circulatory support device only supports the heart. ECMO and other support devices are used after other remedies, such as medications, extra oxygen, or a mechanical ventilator, prove insufficient to keep oxygenated blood circulating through the body. These treatments are initiated via a surgical procedure that requires anesthesia. The surgeon places plastic tubes called cannulas into blood vessels in the patient’s neck, chest, or leg. These tubes connect to the heart, transporting blood to the ECMO machine, where it is enriched with oxygen and then returned to the body. ECMO Treatment for Acute Respiratory Failure Venovenous ECMO aids recovery in a person who has severely injured lungs and is experiencing acute respiratory failure. This treatment is most often used to care for people experiencing severe lung infections, such as COVID-19, pneumonia, and influenza; inflammatory diseases of the lung, such as acute respiratory distress syndrome; and severe airway disease conditions, such as status asthmaticus, a severe form of asthma. Our team selects the most appropriate approach for each patient, which can include venovenous ECMO and other treatments. Some people with severe lung disease may benefit from venovenous ECMO before a Mechanical Circulatory Support and ECMO for Cardiogenic Shock During acute heart failure following cardiogenic shock, a mechanical circulatory support device helps the heart function. Our experts may use this device as a temporary treatment that could lead to recovery, a treatment before a long-term device is implanted, such as a ventricular assist device , or as a treatment before a or lung transplant. Devices used by our team include the following: temporary biventricular assist device (BiVAD), to support both of the heart’s ventricles temporary left ventricular assist device, to support the heart’s left ventricle temporary right ventricular assist device, to support the heart’s right ventricle venoarterial ECMO (VA ECMO), to support the lungs and the heart’s two ventricles Our team works with you to select the appropriate device for your particular condition. Please refer to our financial statement here State Charitable Solicitation Disclosures Financial and other information about NYU Langone Health’s purposes, programs, and activities can be obtained by contacting Edward.Berkovitz@nyulangone.org , One Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016, (212) 404-3844 , or for residents of the following states, as stated below: Florida: A COPY OF THE OFFICIAL REGISTRATION AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE DIVISION OF CONSUMER SERVICES BY CALLING TOLL-FREE WITHIN THE STATE, 1-800-HELPFLA (1-800-435-7352) , OR VIA THE INTERNET AT https://www.fdacs.gov/ConsumerResources/Charities REGISTRATION DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT, APPROVAL, OR RECOMMENDATION BY THE STATE. Florida registration number: SC. No. CH33353. Kansas: The official registration and financial information of NYU Langone Health may be obtained from the Kansas Attorney General's Office at (785) 296-3751 Maryland: For the cost of copies and postage, from the Secretary of State, State House, Annapolis, MD 21401. Minnesota: The official registration and financial information of NYU Langone Health may be obtained from the Charities Registar, 445 Minnesota Street, Suite 1400, St. Paul, MN 55101-2131. Mississippi: The official registration and financial information of NYU Langone Health may be obtained from the Mississippi Secretary of State’s office by calling 1-888-236-6167 . Registration by the Secretary of State does not imply endorsement by the Secretary of State. New Jersey: INFORMATION FILED WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL CONCERNING THIS CHARITABLE SOLICITATION AND THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED BY THE CHARITY DURING THE LAST REPORTING PERIOD THAT WERE DEDICATED TO THE CHARITABLE PURPOSE MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY BY CALLING ( 973) 504-6215 AND IS AVAILABLE ON THE INTERNET AT http://www.state.nj.us/lps/ca/charfrm.htm. REGISTRATION WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT. New York: A copy of our most recently filed financial report is available from the Charities Registry on the New York State Attorney General’s website or, upon request, by contacting the New York State Attorney General, Charities Bureau, 28 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10005, or (212) 416-8401 . Unless otherwise restricted by the gift instrument pursuant to paragraph 553(b) of the NY Not-For-Profit Corporation Law, the institution may expend so much of an endowment fund as it deems prudent after considering the factors set forth in section 553(a) of the Not-For-Profit Corporation Law. You can obtain a description of the programs and activities that your contribution will support by contacting us at the above address. North Dakota: The official registration and financial information of NYU Langone Health may be obtained from the North Dakota Secretary of State at (800)-352-0867 Oklahoma: The official registration and financial information of NYU Langone Health may be requested from the Office of the Secretary of State, State of Oklahoma. South Carolina: Financial Statements are available from the South Carolina Secretary of State, Division of Public Charities, 1205 Pendleton Street, Suite 525, Columbia, SC 29201. Utal: Financial Statements are available from the Utah Division of Consumer Protection, 160 East 300 South, 2nd Floor, PO Box 146704, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6704. Washington: Additional financial disclosure information is available from the office of the Secretary of State at 1-800-332-4483 http://www.sos.wa.gov/charities/ Wisconsin: A financial statement of the charitable organization disclosing assets, liabilities, fund balances, revenue, and expenses for the preceding fiscal year will be provided to any person upon request. CONTRIBUTIONS ARE DEDUCTIBLE FOR FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW. REGISTRATION IN A STATE DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT, APPROVAL, OR RECOMMENDATION OF NYU LANGONE HEALTH BY THAT STATE. If you have questions about giving to NYU Langone Health, you can reach us by phone or email using the information below. General Giving Let us know if you have questions about giving to NYU Langone Health. Charitable Gift Planning We are happy to work with you and your adviser to determine the type of gift that best fits your financial and philanthropic goals. plannedgiving@nyulangone.org Foundation Relations We welcome partnerships with foundations looking to support our progress in research, education, and care. foundations@nyulangone.org Fundraising Events NYU Langone Health fundraisers help us drive progress and innovation by raising crucial funds for the institution. If you have questions about hosting a fundraising event, we're here to help. c ommunitygiving@nyulangone.org Community Partnerships We welcome the opportunity to partner with you. Contact us to learn more. communitygiving@nyulangone.org Personal Fundraising Pages Whether you're celebrating a birthday, honoring a loved one, or simply inspired to raise money for NYU Langone Health, contact us. Corporate Giving Learn how your company can make a difference. Frequently Asked Questions and Answers We are always here to help. Please review the answers to our most frequently asked questions below. Making a Gift Can I make a gift online? You can make a tax-deductible gift online using this secure form Can I make a gift in memory of a loved one? Yes, a gift in memory of a loved one helps create a lasting legacy. View the answers to our most frequently asked questions about memorial gifts for more information. When making a gift in honor of someone, can I honor and notify multiple people? Yes, please Can I donate stocks or other securities? Donating appreciated stocks, bonds, and mutual fund shares to NYU Langone Hospitals or NYU Grossman School of Medicine may be a financially beneficial way to help NYU Langone Health. The total value of the securities upon transfer is tax deductible and there is no obligation to pay capital gains taxes on the appreciation. To get started, complete the Securities Transfer Form Can I donate by wire transfer? Yes, to transfer funds electronically from your bank account to NYU Langone Health or NYU Grossman School of Medicine, complete the Wire Transfer Form How can I donate by phone or mail? To give by phone, please call 646-929-7958 To give by mail, please make your check out to NYU Langone Health and send to: Office of Development and Alumni Affairs One Park Avenue, 5th Floor Can I give cash or cash equivalents? These can either be paid outright in a single installment or as a pledge to be fulfilled over a period of several years. A cash gift (covered in many different payment options including check, credit card, wire transfer) may entitle the donor to a charitable deduction of up to 60% of adjusted gross income annually, with a carry-over provision of up to five years should the value of the gift exceed 60% of the individual donor’s adjusted gross income. Please consult your individual tax advisor to determine how much of your contribution is deductible. Can I give through a Donor Advised Fund (DAF)? A Donor Advised Fund, or DAF, is philanthropic giving vehicle that works like a charitable savings account. It allows you to make a charitable contribution, receive an immediate tax deduction, and then recommend grants from your fund right away or over time. If you are interested in recommending a grant to NYU Langone Health, please contact your sponsoring organization directly or contact us at How can I learn more about IRA charitable rollover gifts or qualified charitable distributions (QCD)? If you are 70½ or older, you can donate up to $100,000 per tax year from your individual retirement account (IRA) directly to NYU Langone Health. For more information, please contact your IRA administrator or contact us at 212-404-3681. Can I make a monthly (or sustaining) gift online? Yes, please use this to make a monthly gift to NYU Langone. How do I cancel my monthly (or sustaining) gift? Simply and we’ll execute and confirm the cancellation. Tax Receipting How do I receive a tax receipt or tax acknowledgement replacement? Online donations will receive an emailed acknowledgment right after the gift is processed. Mailed donations will receive an acknowledgement in the mail within 15 days once the gift is processed. We would be happy to send you a duplicate copy of your tax acknowledgement letter. Please and be sure to include your full name and complete mailing address, as well as the date and amount of your donation. How do I receive a tax receipt if I donated to a NYU Langone through a Facebook fundraiser? When someone makes a donation through a Facebook Fundraiser, a payment receipt is sent by Facebook to the primary email listed on the donor’s Facebook account. This payment receipt includes the organization’s tax ID number and confirms that the person has made a donation as a charitable contribution and that they’re not receiving any goods or services in return. Donors through Facebook Fundraisers may also find their donation under “Payment History” on Facebook, where a receipt can be printed. What is NYU Langone’s tax ID? NYU Langone Health's tax ID is 133971298. Privacy What is the NYU Langone privacy policy? You can view NYU Langone’s privacy policy Does give.nyulangone.org use cookies? Do What You Love to Raise Funds Rally your community and start a campaign to help patients, doctors, and researchers—and improve health everywhere. You Can Do Anything to Make an Impact. Dream Big. Give Back. Honor Someone Special Help others while you recognize someone who has made a difference for you. Get Started Donate Your Birthday Invite your friends and family to change lives in lieu of birthday gifts. Host an Event Bring your community together to bring about the best in medicine. Get Creative The sky’s the limit. What will you do to make your mark on medicine? How It Works Create your campaign, set your goal, and tell your story. Share your campaign and track your progress. Give Thanks Celebrate with your supporters when you reach your goal. Transform Health in Brooklyn with Team NYU Langone Run with us at the Brooklyn Marathon to end cancer disparities in Brooklyn. Run, walk, bike or swim with Team NYU Langone Learn more about our athletic fundraising opportunities. Make An Impact Looking for an existing fundraising page? Celebrate With Us for CCFK We’re raising funds for NYU Langone Cancer Center for Kids—Mineola (CCFK) in memory of little eight-year-old Adam. Read More Help Kids Who Need It Most A gift of any amount can impact the lives of patients and families at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Pediatric Center. Bring Hope to Children With Serious Illnesses Support Child Life services at Hassenfeld Children's Hospital and ensure countless kids have the joy and comfort they need. Looking to join us for an event? Come Together and Give Back Join us for an event and help raise awareness and funds for a cause that means the most to you. Browse Events Type: Sort by: Upcoming Event FACES Gala 2025 Mar 3, 2025 - 6:30 PM - 9:30 PM Pier Sixty at Chelsea Piers, 60 Chelsea PiersNew York, NY 10011 Past Event Sala-bration 2024 $3,217,155 celebrated in fundraising for Sala Institute 130 attendees Nov 12, 2024 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone New York, NY 10016 2024 Urology FunRaiser $1.4 million raised 52 Sep 30, 2024 5:00 PM - 8:30 PM The Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Pavilion424 East 34th Street, 7th FloorNew York, NY 10016 freshFACES 2024 $200k+ 220+ Sep 12, 2024 7:00 PM - 10:00 PM Camp David at Industry City237 36th StreetBrooklyn, NY 11232 NYU Langone Long Island Golf Classic 2024 $660,000 300 Jun 3, 2024 All Day Glen Oaks Club Sala-bration 2023 205 $2.1 million Nov 6, 2023 Bohemian National Hall New York, NY 10128 2024 FACES Gala 700+ $5.5 million Mar 4, 2024 Pier Sixty at Chelsea PiersNew York, NY 10011 2024 Alumni Reunion 436 Apr 12, 2024 - Apr 13, 2024 - 11:00 PM 2023 Urology FunRaiser $1.25 million 70 Sep 27, 2023 The Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Pavilion424 East 34th Street, 7th FloorNew York, NY 10016 The D10 Nov 16, 2024 - Jul 29, 2024 Florida International University 1 2 Next » Get Inspired by Our Community Each and every day, members of our NYU Langone community find new ways to set medical progress in motion. Read their stories. Browse Inspiring Stories Categories: Just Move! From Cancer Diagnosis to Weight-Lifting Champ I thought I had 90 days to live. Now I’m a national powerlifting champion. more Running Up Heartbreak Hill for Palliative Cancer Care At age 60, I decided to run my first marathon in support of NYU Langone’s palliative care team. From the NICU to the Soccer Field Samara Sweig shares her experience of having twin girls prematurely and how she’s giving back today through Sala Institute. A Community Lifted Me Up I found new family during my year of cancer treatment. Learning Critical Communication Skills to Enhance Care Sala partners with NYU Grossman School of Medicine to provide lessons to pediatric residents. Ensuring Care for Future Patients Announcing a new Campaign for Sala Institute to meet the needs of children and families when they need it most. Teaching the Teachers How NYU Grossman School of Medicine is reimagining teaching and learning. Teaching Digital Health Prepping practitioners and students for medicine’s tech evolution. Taking the ‘Ouch’ Out of Shots How to help make a child’s vaccination experience positive. 3 Load More Dreaming Big. Giving Back. Because of Sala, teens, too, are empowered and engaged in the design of care through the Youth Advisory Council. Why Give to NYU Langone? Because your support helps us bring world-class care to every community, offer expert medical training, conduct groundbreaking research, and more. Revolutionize Care with Us We strive to deliver the best outcomes to our patients. Your generosity strengthens our ability to bring hope and healing to our communities by supporting a variety of inpatient and outpatient programs, as well as our investment in new state-of-the-art facilities—in Manhattan and beyond. specialties in top 10 of rankings No. 1 for Ambulatory Care Quality and Accountability according to Vizient 300+ locations for world-class care across New York City, Long Island, and Florida Build the Future with Us Your support today has a tremendous impact on tomorrow’s medical leaders by connecting our gifted students with the highest-caliber training programs and allowing us to offer every student enrolled in our MD degree programs full-tuition scholarships as part of our tuition-free initiative. From expanding my horizons to helping me fulfill my long-term goals, the full-tuition scholarship has empowered me to become the best version of myself. Elisa Warda '25 Student Inspire Progress with Us When the most difficult medical questions emerge, our dedicated researchers always rise to the occasion. Your contributions allow our investigators to keep making the trailblazing discoveries that make history and provide them with the resources they need to change lives. 1st medical school in the nation to award full-tuition scholarships to all MD degree candidates 7,600+ nurses who've earned Magnet Designation for nursing excellence year after year Your generosity makes an impact today and on the future of medicine. Make the Biggest Impact Flexible gifts support NYU Langone’s areas of greatest need. Give Now Direct Your Gift Making a gift to a cause you care about is a special way to support our work. Find a Fund Make It Monthly Join the dedicated group of donors who sustain our efforts. Give Monthly Alumni Giving Alumni support fosters tremendous progress at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and helps students access an outstanding medical education. How I Make an Impact Every Month As a monthly donor, I know NYU Langone can rely on my help so they can continue to conduct important and innovative research. Dana B. Monthly donor Planned Giving Your planned gift will drive innovation at NYU Langone for years to come. Matching Gifts Maximize your impact by asking your employer to match your gift. Search for Your Company We offer many ways for your company to get involved and give back as a team. Other Ways to Give There are many ways to donate to NYU Langone including stocks, gifts of cash or cash equivalents, donor advised funds, and more. Specialists at NYU Langone’s Cardio-Obstetrics Program are dedicated to supporting your heart health, from preconception to and through labor and delivery , the post-partum period, and beyond. We provide heart disease prevention, including screening for early heart disease, risk factor control, lifestyle counseling, and personalized cardiovascular care. Our specialists in obstetrics adult congenital heart disease cardiovascular disease prevention cardiology work together to create personalized care plans for people who plan to become pregnant or are already expecting. Our experts also collaborate to provide cardiovascular care after childbirth. Left unmanaged, cardiovascular disease can be life-threatening during pregnancy, putting both the pregnant person and baby at risk. Between 10 and 15 percent of pregnancies have at least one complication linked to the accelerated development of heart disease following pregnancy—our goal is to reduce the frequency and impact of these complications. We also recognize that people of color are especially vulnerable during and after pregnancy and provide them with a supportive care environment tailored to their needs. Our providers follow a nondiscrimination policy Preconception Cardiovascular and Obstetric Care We offer counseling to people who are concerned about their heart health and want to become pregnant. Before pregnancy, our maternal–fetal medicine specialists provide insight into your cardiovascular risks and their management during pregnancy and after childbirth. Our cardiologists offer a preconception cardiac evaluation that includes a transthoracic echocardiogram, which uses ultrasound to create images of the heart, and stress testing, which assesses how the heart works during physical activity, helps guide treatment plans. They also screen for conditions such as like high cholesterol, and Our goal is to prevent and proactively manage cardiovascular problems before you become pregnant. We create care plans that may include lifestyle modifications such as stress reduction, exercise, and eating a heart-healthy diet. Medications that are safe to use before and during pregnancy may also be part of your treatment plan. Around-the-Clock Cardiovascular Care During Pregnancy During pregnancy, our cardio-obstetric specialists provide a 24/7 clinical service of maternal–fetal medicine and adult congenital heart disease specialists to manage a full range of cardiovascular conditions during pregnancy. These include the following: heart valve conditions, including , or tricuspid valve disease hypertensive disorders such as high blood pressure or preeclampsia We work closely with other subspecialists at to deliver the highest-quality care for any cardiac condition that arises during pregnancy. Pregnant patients are seen promptly in our outpatient cardiac and high-risk obstetric clinics and followed closely throughout pregnancy and during and after childbirth. Cardiovascular Care After Childbirth If you have a pregnancy complicated by high blood pressure, preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, or spontaneous preterm labor , you are at increased risk for developing early heart disease, , or chronic high blood pressure. To ensure a smooth transition from obstetric care to long-term preventative care, our maternal–fetal medicine specialist may refer you to a . The program provides screening for early heart disease, risk factor control, lifestyle counseling, and personalized cardiovascular care for people at high risk after giving birth. Patients can be referred to the program three months after childbirth, when pregnancy-related hormonal changes in the body likely no longer affect factors such as cholesterol and high blood pressure. Patients can see our doctors over the short and long term to monitor and optimize cardiovascular health. They will also learn how to manage cardiovascular risk if they choose to become pregnant again. Our doctors are pioneers in the field of cardio-obstetrics. JB Justin S. Brandt Maternal-Fetal Medicine Specialist Anais Hausvater Christina A. Penfield 6 Obstetrics and Gynecology Our obstetrician–gynecologists are committed to compassionate care throughout your pregnancy. Our program in the Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease specializes in preventing cardiovascular disease in people after childbirth. Our specialists care for people who are pregnant or considering pregnancy and have congenital heart disease. Women’s Cardiology Program We may refer individuals who are pregnant to a cardiologist who specializes in heart care for women and others assigned female sex at birth. Cardiologists and maternal–fetal medicine specialists at NYU Langone Heart manage cardiovascular conditions that may arise before, during, or after pregnancy. Help create a lasting legacy for your loved one, and ensure that their memory makes a meaningful difference for patients worldwide. Ways to Remember Those You Love Create a Tribute Fundraising Page Give friends and family the chance to make a meaningful gift in honor of your loved one. Make a Donation in Their Memory Make a gift to advance research and patient care in celebration of your loved one. Donate Now A Legacy That Advances Medicine More than 25 years ago, my family and I established the Stephen E. Banner Fund for Lung Cancer Research in loving memory of my husband, Steve. My husband's warmth and joie de vivre still inspire all who knew him. Ellen Banner How can I set up a fund in memory of a loved one? There are multiple ways you can set up a fund in memory of a loved one: Create a memorial fundraising page. The simplest way to ask your family and friends to donate in memory of a loved one is to setup an online fundraising page that you can share via email or social media. These pages can be customized with photos and personal stories of your loved one. Fundraise through social media. If you'd rather fundraise directly via or Instagram, simply search for NYU Langone Health in the dropdown menu and follow the prompts. Once your campaign is live, please notify us so that we can properly allocate your funds. Collect donations by check. Let friends and family know they can mail donations directly to us. Please ask that they put your loved one’s name in the memo line. Or you can collect the checks yourself and mail them to us. to have these checks added to your online fundraising page. Our address is: Office of Development 1 Park Avenue 5th Floor What if I wish to make an online donation in memory of my loved one but don’t wish to create a personalized fundraising page? Yes, you can make a gift in honor of your loved one Do you have suggested obituary language for requesting memorial gifts? In lieu of flowers, please send donations in memory of [NAME] to the NYU Langone Health Office of Development at 1 Park Avenue, 5th Floor, New York, NY 10016. Checks may be made out to “NYU Langone Health.” Please note in the memo line that your gift is in memory of [NAME]. Will I be notified of gifts made in memory of my loved one? Yes. For online gifts, you will receive an email notification whenever a gift is made to your fundraising page. For donations made by check, you will receive a report with a list of donations made in memory of your loved one. Please note that these notifications may take several weeks to arrive. Will donors be thanked for their memorial gift? Yes. For online gifts, donors will immediately receive an email confirmation, which can be also used as a tax receipt. For donations made by check, donors will receive their thank you and receipt by mail. Can I allocate funds to a specific area within NYU Langone? Yes, you may direct the funds you raise to a specific area whether you choose to use a fundraising page or ask that donations are sent by check. to learn more. Can donors to my fundraising page apply for corporate matching gifts? Yes, anyone who works for a company that participates in a corporate matching gift program can apply for a match if NYU Langone is an eligible organization. What is NYU Langone's tax ID number? NYU Langone Health's tax ID is 133971298. You can provide this tax-exempt number to businesses that make donations to your tribute and need to verify the tax status of NYU Langone. Family & Lifestyle Support for People with Inherited Arrhythmia After being diagnosed with an inherited arrhythmia, people often wonder whether their family members are at risk. They may also be concerned about how arrhythmia might affect their everyday lives. The team at the is eager to help you and your family answer these questions. Genetic Testing for Families If you have been diagnosed with an inherited arrhythmia such as Brugada syndrome or long QT syndrome, we encourage your parents, siblings, and children to receive genetic screening and counseling. Early detection of an inherited arrhythmia can reduce a person’s risk of developing symptoms, which include heart palpitations, fainting, and heart attack. Diagnosing an inherited arrhythmia involves genetic testing, electrocardiogram (EKG), and surveillance monitoring with a device such as a Holter monitor. If there is a positive diagnosis, we devise a preventive care plan to help family members manage the condition. Living with Inherited Arrhythmia Our team, part of the , can can connect you with psychological and social work resources if you are experiencing stress or anxiety , which are common reactions to learning you have an inherited arrhythmia. Our doctors can also provide guidance and care while you receive other medical treatment. For example, if you are on blood thinner medications to treat your arrhythmia, your doctor may need to adjust your dose before surgery, dental care, or childbirth. Please talk with your electrophysiologist before undergoing any elective medical procedure. We also provide guidance for people who play competitive sports or are in high-stress careers, such as firefighting or police work, to determine ways you can continue to participate while maintaining your heart health. Maternal–Fetal Medicine Services Leader in Mother–Baby Care NYU Langone has received certification from The Joint Commission for our excellence in advanced perinatal care. Regional Perinatal Center We meet the highest standards for obstetric and infant care as defined by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Advanced Fetal Imaging Our imaging experts can detect certain congenital defects as early as 11 weeks of pregnancy. NYU Langone’s maternal–fetal medicine specialists provide women experiencing high-risk pregnancies with expert care before and during Our board-certified maternal–fetal medicine specialists are nationally recognized experts who regularly publish original research in top medical journals. They work closely with neonatologists, geneticists, pediatric cardiologists, rheumatologists, fertility experts, and other specialists to manage your high-risk pregnancy. Diagnostic Testing and Fetal Treatment For New and Expecting Parents We provide the information, resources, and guidance you need to confidently navigate this exciting time in your life. Learn About Our Programs Our team provides preconception consultations for women who have a history of difficult pregnancies. We provide genetic and diagnostic testing for birth defects and fetal abnormalities , including chorionic villus sampling, nuchal translucency, umbilical cord blood sampling, and first trimester ultrasound testing. Working with our Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment Program , we also provide expertise in fetal therapeutic procedures. This includes blood transfusions for babies in the womb affected by anemia, and fetoscopic laser photocoagulation, a minimally invasive procedure used to stop blood transfer between fetuses with twin–twin transfusion syndrome. Dr. Wendy L. Kinzler is a maternal–fetal medicine specialist at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. Care for the Expectant Mother We care for women who are age 35 and older, who are pregnant with multiples, have experienced , or who have a history of recurrent miscarriage . We provide specialized care for  women who have medical conditions that make their pregnancies high risk, such as autoimmune diseases, cardiac disorders, gestational diabetes, gastrointestinal disorders, and preeclampsia, and people who need extra monitoring, including people who have received an organ transplant and those with . NYU Langone is accredited by the Adult Congenital Heart Association as an Adult Congenital Heart Disease Comprehensive Care Center. Residency and Fellowships Our specialists are leaders in preparing the next generation of doctors entering the field of maternal–fetal medicine. View Education Opportunities Advanced fetal imaging is provided throughout your pregnancy to monitor your baby’s growth and development. We provide the full scope of ultrasound services, including three- and four-dimensional ultrasound testing. Imaging can help in the diagnosis of , abdominal wall defects, chromosomal abnormalities such as Down syndrome, and open neural tube defects including Our maternal-fetal medicine specialists, including Dr. Shilpi S. Mehta-Lee, use advanced fetal imaging to monitor your baby's growth and development. We also offer first-trimester ultrasound testing and fetal echocardiography starting at as early as 11 weeks gestation. Early imaging may be recommended if your baby is at higher risk for congenital defects due to family history or if prenatal screening tests such as nuchal translucency indicate a risk. Early detection can help parents make important choices about the pregnancy and their baby’s care after birth. If a heart defect is suspected, consultations with imaging experts from Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone’s are available via a secure video consultation from one of our maternal–fetal medicine locations. Early morning and evening appointments are available at some of our locations. Our Affiliated Programs and Centers Fertility Center We provide preimplantation genetic screening and diagnosis that can help increase the chance of a healthy pregnancy. Learn More About the Fertility Center We provide medical care to babies in the womb. Learn More About the Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment Program Clinical Genetic Services We provide thorough testing to accurately diagnose genetic conditions. Learn More About Clinical Genetic Services Advanced Care for Newborns Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at Tisch Hospital Our Pediatric Specialists Fink Children’s Ambulatory Care Center Pediatric General Surgery Pediatric Neurosurgery Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Services Pediatric Rehabilitation Services Specialized Adult Care Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center Maternal–Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Obstetrics & Gynecology Associates 159 East 53rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY, 10022 646-754-2700 NYU Langone Brooklyn Maternal Fetal Medicine Associates 718-630-8555 718-630-8576 Ultrasound Unit—OB/GYN 530 First Avenue, Suite 10Q, New York, NY, 10016 212-263-7021 212-263-8610 646-754-2446 What Is a Midwife? Innovative Cardiac Care Saves Newborn’s Life NICU Team Provides Lifesaving Care for 1-Pound Newborn New Vice Chair for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Named Baby Survives CHAOS After High-Risk, Complex Procedure At-Birth Surgery Saves Baby with Rare Disorder How Doctors Cured a Newborn’s Lethal Pair of Cardiac Defects COVID-19 Vaccines During Pregnancy Give Protection to Babies Podcast: Fetal Surgeon Saves Unborn Twins with Rare Illness COVID-19 Vaccination in Pregnancy Passes Antibodies to Baby Doctors at NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center use the latest advances to perform robotic-assisted surgery on the kidneys and urinary tract in people who have benign or cancerous conditions. Conditions We Manage with Robotic Surgery We treat people who have certain types of cancer, including kidney cancer prostate cancer bladder cancer , ureteral cancer, and adrenal cancer —in collaboration with experts at Experts at NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center also manage benign conditions. These include the following: benign kidney tumors bladder diverticula Conn’s syndrome Cushing syndrome cystocele, or bladder prolapse enterocele, or prolapse of the vagina and intestines after hysterectomy functional adrenal adenoma pelvic organ prolapse , including uterine prolapse renal cyst retroperitoneal fibrosis ureteral stricture ureteropelvic junction obstruction urinary tract reconstruction following cancer surgery Our surgeons have pioneered many of the robotic surgical techniques used to manage these conditions, and we have some of the best outcomes in the world. Our research has been commended by the World Congress of Endourology. Our surgeons have been performing robotic procedures to treat women with urinary incontinence and uterine prolapse for close to a decade, and we’ve taught these techniques to doctors around the world. We perform robotic pelvic organ prolapse repair , a procedure that allows for greater surgical visibility through magnification, which results in more precise movements than with conventional surgical techniques. NYU Langone’s robotic surgery program has one of the largest number of published articles in robotic pyeloplasty and urinary reconstruction procedures in the world. These treatments involve removing a blockage of the ureteropelvic junction—which is where the kidney meets the ureter, a tube that connects the bladder and kidneys—and using robotic surgery to manage ureteral reconstruction. Among the strategies we have developed is the use of tissue from inside a patient’s mouth to rebuild the ureter. We have also developed enhanced imaging techniques using near-infrared fluorescence, known as NIRF, to confirm blood flow to the tissue. Our doctors were the first to perform a robotic-assisted ureterolysis, in which the ureter is freed from surrounding fibrous tissue, and a ureterocalicostomy, which is used rarely to treat people with a refractory proximal ureteral stricture or a ureteropelvic junction obstruction. Leaders in Robotic Surgery Education In addition to caring for patients and performing research, experts at the Robotic Surgery Center are also committed to training robotic surgeons in new techniques. Each year, more than 100 surgeons come to NYU Langone to observe our advanced robotic urologic techniques. The Robotic Surgery Center hosts an annual course in robotic surgery across various disciplines. More than 400 attendees from all over the country as well as 11 countries attend the conference each year. our research and educational programs Robotic surgery for kidney and urinary conditions is performed by the following doctors: Benjamin M. Brucker, MD James F. Borin, MD Frederick A. Gulmi, MD William C. Huang, MD Nirit Rosenblum, MD Samir Taneja, MD James S. Wysock, MD Lee C. Zhao, MD To make an appointment or learn more about our services, call 877-ROBO-NYU ( 877-762-6698 At NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center, our specially trained, highly experienced surgeons are at the forefront of robotic surgery for both benign and cancerous gastrointestinal and digestive diseases. Minimally invasive surgery has long been a cornerstone in the treatment of people who have gastrointestinal diseases and disorders. For certain people, a minimally invasive approach decreases recovery time, so you can move on to the next phase of your care as quickly as possible. Our gastrointestinal surgical oncologists and colorectal surgeons were among the first in the United States to use robotic techniques in the treatment of gastrointestinal cancers. We work with experts at NYU Langone’s to manage many types of cancer, including bile duct cancer, colorectal cancer esophageal cancer pancreatic cancer , primary peritoneal cancer, and stomach cancer . Other tumors that can be removed with robotic-assisted surgery include tumors of the adrenal gland , spleen, small intestine , and retroperitoneum. Robotic surgery can also be used to manage benign conditions, including the following: achalasia acid reflux, which is also called gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD Crohn’s disease diverticulitis esophageal diverticulum fistulas between the colon and bladder fistulas between the rectum and urethra fistulas between the rectum and vagina hiatal hernia rectal prolapse ulcerative colitis Robotic surgery to manage digestive and gastrointestinal conditions is performed by the following doctors: Mitchell A. Bernstein, MD Brian P. Harlin, MD Jamie Levine, MD Josef Shehebar, MD ). Learn more about The gynecologic robotic surgery team at NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center offers procedures for a wide range of conditions, including advanced endometriosis uterine fibroids pelvic pain , and heavy bleeding, as well as cancer-staging procedures. The robotic platform has enabled us to perform various complex procedures, including the removal of large fibroid tumors through tiny incisions. This allows for much speedier recovery, significantly less pain and bleeding, and quicker return to normal activities. We use one of the world’s most experienced advanced MRI imaging programs to maximize outcomes during robotic-assisted treatment of endometriosis. Our goal is to manage the condition and alleviate the pain and suffering of our patients while preserving fertility. In addition, our sophisticated technology allows us to perform “single site” robotic-assisted gynecologic procedures for certain women. This means surgery can be performed through a single incision in the navel that leaves a nearly invisible, hidden scar. Our gynecology robotic surgery team routinely ranks among the highest volume centers in the country. Physicians from around the nation and world travel here to observe our surgeons use the most-advanced techniques and minimally invasive approaches to managing complicated gynecologic conditions including uterine fibroids, endometriosis and gynecologic cancer. Our surgeons collaborate with experts at NYU Langone’s for people who require further cancer treatment after surgery. The gynecologic conditions for which we offer robotic surgery include the following: adenomyosis cancer risk reduction for women at high risk of developing ovarian cancer endometrial cancer chronic pelvic pain endometriosis, through NYU Langone’s Endometriosis Center hysterectomy hysterectomy for rectocele robotic adnexal procedures robotic myomectomy sacrocolpopexy sacrohysteropexy supracervical hysterectomy uterine bleeding uterine prolapse vaginal prolapse after hysterectomy Robotic surgery for female reproductive and sexual health conditions is performed by the following doctors: Robert Berg, MD Leslie R. Boyd, MD Kathy Huang, MD Linda M. Nicoll, MD Bhavana Pothuri, MD Elizabeth Poynor, MD, PhD Ruth Tessler, MD Preparing for Your Catheterization Procedure Interventional cardiologists at NYU Langone’s perform a variety of catheter-based diagnostic and therapeutic treatments, including coronary artery stenting Our doctors use imaging results from an angiogram to diagnose blockages in the heart as well as in the legs and neck. Cardiac catheterization takes place at the . An angiogram, which uses X-ray images to look for blocked blood vessels, is the most common procedure we perform. We use the imaging results from the angiogram to diagnose blockages in the heart as well as in the legs and neck. If a blockage is found, your doctor might use a stent to open up your artery. Stenting is a catheter-based treatment. Our specialists guide a long, hollow tube called a catheter through an artery or vein to the procedure site. The location of the incision depends on the type of procedure you are having. In most cases, you are awake for the procedure and can go home the same day. Here is what you need to know before, during, and after the procedure. Preparing for the Catheterization Procedure Expect a phone call the day before the procedure from a physician assistant or nurse practitioner telling you what to expect the day of your visit, including what time to arrive. Someone must be available to take you home after the procedure, so please arrange for a family member or friend to pick you up. Learn more about our visitor policies and who can accompany you for the procedure. Talk with your doctor about whether you should take your medications in the morning, especially if you are taking blood thinners or anticlotting medicines or if you have . Otherwise, do not eat or drink anything in the morning unless your doctor or nurse tells you to do so. Please bring the following items with you: all medications in their bottles or a list of all medications with dosages insurance card(s) photo identification such as a driver’s license or state identification card It is best to leave all valuables, including money and jewelry, at home. Please tell the admitting nurse if you have , any allergies to medications, or an allergy to or have had a reaction to intravenous (IV) dye. During the Catheterization Procedure When you arrive in the catheterization lab, the nurse may perform a blood test or take you for a chest X-ray. Your doctor places an IV line to deliver any necessary medicine during the procedure. A mild anesthetic is used on the site where the catheter is to be inserted. The procedure should be pain-free. After the Catheterization Procedure After the procedure, you stay in our recovery area for two to eight hours before being discharged. Your doctor bandages the incision site, and you are asked to rest and lie still until a member of your medical team says you are ready to leave. We encourage you to bring reading materials or other activities to keep you busy while you wait. Most people go home the same day, but some procedures require that you be monitored in the hospital overnight. When you are ready to leave, you are given instructions about your medication. This may include new prescriptions that your doctor has given you. You are advised not to lift heavy objects or participate in strenuous activity for two weeks. You can shower the day after the procedure, but please wait one week before taking a bath. You are also told when to follow up with your doctor. Diagnosis & Treatment for Blocked Arteries Our interventional cardiologists use evidence-based diagnostic procedures and techniques to assess blood circulation and look for narrowed or blocked vessels. Depending on the results of these tests and scans, your doctor may recommend an interventional procedure or other therapies to open these blocked arteries and restore normal blood flow. Diagnostic Procedures to Detect Blocked Arteries During cardiac catheterization, our specialists use special tools to look for blocked arteries and, when necessary, perform procedures to restore healthy blood flow. Coronary Angiogram Coronary angiography, also known as a , is a diagnostic test to look for blocked arteries or structural problems in the heart, such as valve disease. This is often done in response to symptoms such as chest pain or abnormal stress test results. During an angiogram, your doctor uses a catheter to introduce a dye into the bloodstream. An X-ray machine detects the dye and creates a series of images that allow your doctor to look for blockages or other abnormalities. Doctors may also perform an angiogram to identify narrowed or blocked arteries in the leg, leading to lower extremity peripheral artery disease, also known as lower extremity arterial disease Other Diagnostic Tests to Detect Heart Disease Doctors in our cardiac catheterization laboratory may also use the following diagnostic tests to detect other forms of heart disease: Right heart catheterization can diagnose high blood pressure in the pulmonary arteries using a catheter passed through an artery on the right side of the heart. Hemodynamic assessment is a procedure that checks blood flow and heart function and helps diagnose valvular heart disease, congestive heart failure, and , also known as a cardiac shunt. Physiological testing uses specialized wires to measure blood pressure and blood flow across a blockage which can help determine if it needs to be treated. Intravascular imaging, including intravascular ultrasound and optical coherence tomography, allows interventional cardiologists to look for narrowing or blockages of blood vessels and the extent of blockage, which can also help prepare for coronary artery stenting. As soon as a diagnosis is made, our doctors discuss treatment options with you and begin the interventional procedure. Interventional Procedures to Open Blocked Arteries Our interventional cardiology team performs all procedures and techniques to open blocked arteries. We are also known for providing effective therapy for people with complex and complete blockages, including chronic total occlusion (CTO), and those who have been told they are not candidates for treatment at other catheterization laboratories. Coronary artery stenting is a technique used to treat blocked arteries. During the stenting procedure, also known as percutaneous coronary intervention , a tiny incision is made in the wrist or groin, and then a thin catheter is inserted through the incision into the artery.  A balloon catheter is inflated at the location of the blockage, opening the artery and allowing blood to flow normally. This is followed by placement of a stent, which is a medicated, scaffold-like mesh tube that reduces the risk of the blockage recurring. Coronary stenting is also done in emergency situations such as a heart attack. Complex Coronary Interventions Our interventional cardiologists provide treatment for the most complex, high-risk blockages. This includes chronic total occlusion, or CTO, when arteries have been completely blocked for three months or longer, and complex coronary artery disease, meaning heart disease in people who have complex cases or high-risk factors. We use the most-advanced tools and technology to treat challenging blockages, including atherectomy, which uses a small tool to cut through blockages; excimer laser coronary angioplasty, which uses laser mechanisms to break up plaque; and intravascular lithotripsy, which uses shock waves to treat the most-resistant blockages. is a catheter-based treatment for thinning the muscular wall between the heart’s left and right ventricles. This can help improve blood flow from the heart in people with , a condition that causes thickening of the walls of the heart’s main pumping chamber. Peripheral Angioplasty, Atherectomy, and Stenting Our doctors also use catheterization techniques to look for blockages in the peripheral arteries. These blood vessels provide blood flow outside the heart, such as in the legs, intestines, kidney, and neck. The peripheral arteries bring blood to internal organs and extremities. When their blood flow is restricted, the loss of circulation causes pain, sores, and, in some cases, life-threatening conditions. To treat these blockages, our doctors may use techniques such as peripheral angioplasty, where the arteries are stretched with an inflated balloon and a stent may be placed to keep the artery open. Atherectomy, which uses a small rotational tool, is another technique that may be used to remove calcified blockages that are difficult to remove using angioplasty. These techniques are used to treat chronic caused by kidney blockages; erectile dysfunction caused by limited arterial blood flow; carotid artery disease that increases the risk of , which limits circulation in the legs and increases the risk of gangrene, when tissue dies due to lack of oxygen and blood flow. Structural Heart Procedures Doctors in our Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory also perform structural heart procedures in partnership with cardiac surgeons at NYU Langone’s in Manhattan and on . We use catheterization techniques for aortic valve replacement mitral valve repair and replacement , in which our doctors guide a new valve through a catheter to the heart without requiring open surgery. We offer patients 6 months and older the COVID-19 vaccine, including updated boosters. Vaccine Information for Patients NYU Langone offers the COVID-19 vaccine to our patients age 6 months and older. To learn more about the COVID-19 vaccine and vaccine safety, read our COVID-19 vaccine information for patients Important Vaccine Information and Considerations We ask that you first contact your doctor before making a vaccination appointment if any of these categories apply to you: You had a severe allergic reaction to a vaccine in the past. You have a condition that affects your immune system. You are getting radiation therapy or chemotherapy. If you recently had COVID-19, we recommend waiting to receive your next vaccine dose—primary or booster—by about 3 months from when your symptoms started, or if you had no symptoms, when you first received a positive test. This allows your immune system time to recover and fully respond to the vaccine. Please do not schedule a vaccination or come to NYU Langone to be vaccinated if any of the following statements apply to you: You are currently feeling sick. You have an active COVID-19 infection. The CDC provides detailed information about the COVID-19 vaccine . NYU Langone also provides If you have specific questions about the vaccine related to your health, please contact your NYU Langone doctor. Discovery May Help Gauge Efficacy of Future Cancer Vaccines People with Lupus Benefit from COVID-19 Vaccine Booster First COVID-19 Vaccine Volunteer Reflects on Her Experience What to Know About COVID-19 Vaccines for Kids Under 12 COVID-19 Vaccine & Pregnancy: What You Need to Know COVID-19 Vaccines Cannot Affect Fertility or Sexual Function Patients with Lupus Respond Less Well to COVID-19 Vaccine COVID-19: What We’re Doing to Help You Stay Safe Cancer Center Director Discusses COVID-19 Vaccines & Cancer Vaccines Mandates in Schools Have Been Used Since 1850 Ear, nose, and throat specialists at NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center offer robotic treatment of conditions that affect the head and neck. Robotic surgical procedures for benign and malignant head and neck conditions are performed through the mouth. This approach allows doctors to make smaller incisions that are better visualized, more precise, and may heal more quickly and with less pain. This technique also is less likely than open surgery, which is performed through the neck, to affect speech, swallowing, sense of taste, and breathing. Most patients are able to resume eating solid foods immediately after surgery, and most procedures do not require a hospital stay. Robotic surgery is best suited for people who have early head and neck cancer , in which small, visible tumors and lesions are found on the tonsils, base of the tongue, or supraglottic larynx. Robotic techniques are also useful in discovering otherwise invisible malignancies. Doctors can perform surgery on these same areas—the tonsils, base of the tongue, and supraglottic larynx—to correct benign conditions that contribute to snoring and sleep disordered breathing. A robotic approach can also be used when doctors perform epiglottidectomy, simple or extended tonsillectomy, and pharyngectomy. Robotic head and neck surgery is performed by the following experts: Adam Jacobson, MD Michael J. Persky, MD NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center is one of the few sites in the United States that offers robotic thoracic surgery. Physicians from around the nation travel here to observe our surgeons use the newest and most-advanced techniques and minimally invasive approaches to managing complicated airway, breathing, and lung conditions. Conditions we treat include: bronchogenic cysts esophageal duplication cysts lung nodules mediastinal cysts non-small cell lung cancer small cell lung cancer thymus cysts Our robotic lung surgery program has grown from our surgeons’ pioneering work with the minimally invasive thoracic surgical technique known as VATS, or video-assisted thoracic surgery, for lung cancer. In addition, we perform robotic biopsies of suspicious lung nodules to assess whether they are benign or cancerous. Robotic surgery for airway, breathing, and lung conditions is performed by the following doctors: Robert Cerfolio, MD Stephanie H. Chang, MD Travis C. Geraci, MD Amie J. Kent, MD Michael Zervos, MD NYU Langone bariatric surgeons use the most advanced techniques and minimally invasive approaches to treat people with . Our team has expertise in the following bariatric procedures: sleeve gastrectomy gastric bypass surgery revision surgery Our Team of Robotic Surgery Specialists The following NYU Langone surgeons use robotic surgery techniques to treat obesity. Alexandra L. Argiroff, MD Collin E. Brathwaite, MD Fareed Cheema, MD Gloria B. Chu, MD George S. Ferzli, MD Megan Jenkins, MD Venkata K. Kella, MD Jun L. Levine, MD Owen Pyke, MD Christine J. Ren-Fielding, MD Bradley F. Schwack, MD Loic S. Tchokouani, MD Akuezunkpa O. Ude Welcome, MD COVID-19 Testing We offer diagnostic and antibody testing for COVID-19. COVID-19 Testing for Children If you are concerned you may have COVID-19 or want to find out if you had the virus, NYU Langone offers diagnostic and antibody testing through our laboratories. COVID-19 Update Our doctors are available for in-person appointments. If you have questions about whether an office appointment or video visit is the best option for you, please call your doctor’s office. Learn More About Our Safety Measures We also provide COVID-19 diagnostic testing for children . This includes a rapid COVID-19 test, also known as an antigen test, that provides results within 20 minutes and is available at select NYU Langone locations. COVID-19 Diagnostic Testing If you have COVID-19 symptoms—including fever, cough, shortness of breath, chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat, or new loss of taste or smell—you can schedule a video visit with your NYU Langone doctor to discuss your symptoms and potentially receive a COVID-19 diagnostic test. You can also schedule a visit to have one of our care providers order the test for you. After you complete your visit, your doctor orders the test, and you can then schedule at one of our testing centers through your account. Our testing centers are located at select outpatient locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Please schedule an appointment in order to be tested. Walk-ins are not accepted. For minor medical concerns that need care today, schedule a Virtual Urgent Care video visit to video chat with an NYU Langone Health provider. Schedule a Visit During a test, a clinician uses a nasal swab to take a fluid sample from deep inside your nose. PCR testing detects viral genetic material if it is present in your sample. If you receive your test from NYU Langone, then results are available within one to two business days in your NYU Langone MyChart account, or by calling your doctor’s office. COVID-19 Antibody Testing An antibody test can help determine if you were previously infected with COVID-19 or have produced antibodies after COVID-19 vaccination. The test is conducted by drawing a small amount of blood, which is analyzed for the presence of antibodies—specific proteins made by the immune system in response to an infection or vaccination. An antibody test does not detect the virus itself and is not used to diagnose a current COVID-19 infection. There are many types of antibody tests available, and it is important to know which test should be ordered. These tests look for antibodies to specific virus proteins. If a person has received a COVID-19 vaccine containing the spike (S) protein but has not been infected with the virus, they would have antibodies to only the S protein. If they were infected with the virus, they would have antibodies to the S protein and another called the nucleoprotein, or N. Our laboratory offers tests for antibodies to the S and N proteins. It is not known at this time if having antibodies means a person is immune to the virus, or for how long they may be immune. Not having antibodies does not mean a person was never infected or exposed to the virus. Schedule appointments, access your medical records, and more by logging in to the NYU Langone Health App with your MyChart account. Learn More About the NYU Langone Health App Video visits let you video chat with your care provider from home or wherever is convenient for you. Learn More About Video Doctor Visits If you need to see a doctor right away, schedule a Virtual Urgent Care video visit. Learn More About Virtual Urgent Care Are At-Home COVID-19 Tests Accurate? What Parents Need to Know About the COVID-19 Delta Variant Tips on How to Travel Safely After Getting Vaccinated As COVID Cases Climb, NYU Langone Leads the Way in Testing When Your Child Should Stay Home from Daycare What Parents Should Know About COVID-19 Testing for Kids Maximize your impact with a matching gift. One Gift, Double the Impact Many organizations offer matching gift programs to encourage philanthropy. By taking advantage of this program, you can double the impact of your donation to NYU Langone Health. For most companies, it’s as easy as completing an online or paper form and returning it to NYU Langone. We will confirm your gift and send the necessary paperwork directly to your company. Follow these three easy steps to match your gift Step 1: Once you make a donation to NYU Langone, search our database to see if your company offers a matching gift program. Step 2: Follow the instructions found in our search tool to apply for your company’s matching gift. If you can’t find your company through our search tool, check with your human resources department to find out if your company offers a matching gift program for NYU Langone Health or email our team at Step 3: Send the completed forms to us or submit the necessary information through your company’s portal (if available). Attn: Matching Gifts, Office of Development One Park Avenue, Floor 5 Every Gift Matters Make a flexible gift that we can apply where the need is greatest, and help us continue to transform health in our local communities and around the world. Or find a cause to support. Causes: Keywords: Search Results By: A Lasting Legacy: The Stephen E. Banner Fund Learn more and give to the Stephen E. Banner Fund for Lung Cancer Research. Alzheimer’s Disease Center Help us work toward better treatment options and care for those affected by Alzheimer’s disease. Beatrice W. Welters Breast Outreach and Navigation Program Help medically underserved women access breast cancer screening, diagnosis, treatment, and support services. Breast Cancer Research Drive lifesaving breakthroughs in breast cancer research. Drive progress in research and patient care in cardiology. Center for Amputation Reconstruction Provide specialized care to people with limb loss. COVID-19 Research and Patient Care Drive breakthroughs in COVID-19 research and support the patients who need it most. Diabetes Research and Care Join us in helping patients manage diabetes through integrated care and research. Drive Breakthroughs in Neurology Drive breakthroughs in neurology at NYU Langone. Support the Stephen E. Banner Fund For Lung Cancer Research Accelerate lung cancer research. The strength and resilience of the NYU Grossman School of Medicine community propels us forward. Give Today to Support the Doctors of Tomorrow Help tomorrow's outstanding students make a difference through medicine. Support Scholarships Help Fund Our Greatest Areas of Need Flexible gifts help us continue to develop key programs and initiatives. Donate Today Honor Your Class With a Gift Today Make a Reunion gift today in honor and celebration of your class. Make a Reunion Gift Show Your Alumni Spirit Visit our new brand store. Shop now Since graduating from NYU in 2008, I've looked for opportunities to pay it forward to the next generation. R. James Toussaint ‘08 President, Alumni Association Driving the Education Revolution Novel technologies and big data enhance medical practice and education at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. We're Here to Help Contact us with any questions about giving to NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Support NYU Langone School of Medicine There are many ways to make an impact to advance patient care, medical research, and education. Wire and Securities Transfers Make a gift today by transferring assets to NYU Langone. You can transfer funds from your bank account via a wire transfer and also transfer securities, including stocks, bonds, and mutual fund shares. Donate Stocks and Other Securities Donate by Wire Transfer To transfer funds electronically from your bank account to NYU Langone Health or NYU Grossman School of Medicine, complete the Give by Phone or Mail One Park Avenue, 9th Floor Gifts of Cash or Cash Equivalents Donor Advised Fund IRA Charitable Rollover Gifts or Qualified Charitable Distributions (QCD) If you are 70½ or older, you can donate up to $105,000 per tax year from your individual retirement account (IRA) directly to NYU Langone Health. For more information, please contact your IRA administrator or contact us at 212-404-3681 Gifts-in-Kind A gift-in-kind (GIK) is a non-cash donation and NYU Langone Health is able to accept certain types of GIKs. Common examples include supplies, toys and books. Please contact us at to inquire whether we’re able to accept your specific gift. Galvanize your team. Help your community. Corporate Partners Are Vital to Our Mission By sharing your time, expertise, and resources, you and your employees can make a real difference in the lives of patients and their families. NYU Langone offers exceptional opportunities for our organizations to come together and support each other. From employee volunteerism to event sponsorship, we will work with you to create the best experience for your team. Volunteer on Our Campuses Make a positive impact on our patients and their families with a tailored employee volunteer program based on your team’s skills, interests, and availability. Volunteer from Your Office Collaborate with us to craft exciting and engaging experiences at your own office or venue and support recreational and social activities for patients during their hospital stays. Employee Giving Campaign Your team can make a difference through an NYU Langone online fundraiser. Our online campaign platform makes it easy for your employees to create and manage fundraising drives that complement your company’s volunteer initiative or an NYU Langone community event. Sponsor Premier Events NYU Langone’s renowned celebrations bring together diverse communities of loyal supporters to raise awareness and critical funds for great causes. Corporate Philanthropy When it comes to charitable giving, we embrace companies’ unique interests. We can help you find the perfect philanthropic opportunity at NYU Langone. Because of Sala, teens are empowered and engaged in the design of care through the Youth Advisory Council. Share: Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Email I was 13 when I was diagnosed. There were little symptoms that were adding up. I was having headaches and I was feeling tired all the time, but I passed it off as just exhaustion because I was doing a bunch of extracurricular activities like theater and activities that would help me academically. It turned out it was cancer. I ended up at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, where I initially stayed for over a month. I’m such a family-oriented person, and the family is so close, that it affected a bunch of people. I think definitely it’s something that took a lot of getting used to. I went from being “yay, I’m independent” to “wow, I have to be dependent on all these things and all these people.” Being in the hospital, it was definitely hard, but—even though I was going through this really difficult thing—there was still a positive energy there that I would never expect to get from a hospital. I wasn’t just a patient, I was a person first—and I still had a life. If I was stuck in the room, not doing anything, there were child life specialists and music therapists coming in and doing projects with me, and all that contributed to my mental health and to making sure that I was at a good place, even if my physical health couldn’t make up for that. Sara Damour, Sala Institute Youth Advisory Council Member It really helped that the doctors spoke to me, as opposed to just my parents, because at the end of the day I felt like I was the one who was getting the treatment, I was the one who was receiving the medication, and so I should be spoken to. I’ve been in remission for three years now. For a lot of that time, I’ve been on the Youth Advisory Council—I’m one of the original members. We discuss really important things in our meetings. We teach doctors how to best build relationships with patients. And we talk about things like hospital safety and how to keep people from falling, from our own perspective. I start college soon, where I’ll study to be a social worker. I found I connected with many social workers through the Youth Advisory Council and my time working with Sala Institute. It really changed me, and I want to do that for other kids and families. Read More Inspiring Stories 4 Building a National Roadmap How Sala is leading efforts to enhance support for children with chronic illnesses. Another Form of Distance Why Alex ran to help NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island in a time of need. Alum Gives Thanks Dr. Perelman has supported the school’s scholarship fund for 26 years. Crossing Rivers, Bridging Gaps Child life specialist Frances Clemente shares her story. Teens Brighten the Holidays Teens help the teen patients at the NYU Langone Cancer Center for Kids–Mineola. Strength Emerges How one parent became an advocate for her infant daughter and family. Because of Sala, teens are engaged in the design of care. « Previous Speaking the Language of Care Gabriela Ulloa put her plans on hold to serve alongside her colleagues. Savvy Supporters Give Back Their story began when they started making bracelets. Play Is the Best Medicine Meet Zemi, a five-year-old cancer patient at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Peer Coaching for Safer Care Safety coaches share best practices for patient safety with their colleagues. A Joy Ride to Surgery Young patients take a new ride to the operating room. Advancing Health Equity Making sure that everyone has access to patient care and research. No Laughing Matter One comedian’s journey through COVID-19 double pneumonia. The Education Revolution Novel technologies and big data enhance medical practice and education. Building Resilience How Sala specialists help patients and families learn new coping skills. NYU Grossman School of Medicine is prepping practitioners and students for medicine’s tech evolution. “You get an adrenaline rush racing against the clock,” says Alicia Cowley ’15, Res.’18, MBA ’15 (STERN), about how she spent a weekend last May. Dr. Cowley didn’t run a marathon or take a timed exam, however. The hospitalist participated in New York City’s first-ever Digital Health Datathon, hosted by NYU Langone Health. The intense 48-hour competition started by defining and building the new interdisciplinary team for the digital era:  clinicians and data scientists working side by side. Colleagues from NYU Langone, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), and Google worked in groups. Once the teams were established, providers posed clinical questions that the data scientists turned into computer queries on a large electronic health record (EHR) dataset. Dr. Cowley’s team asked: Do higher daily diuresis (urination) goals decrease ICU patients’ length of stay for heart failure exacerbation? “Our team broke down what the question meant and the variables that led to the diuresis goal,” Dr. Cowley explains. “Then, we came up with assumptions and criteria. The pharmacists chose patients from the dataset based on medications, and the hospitalist physicians utilized admitting diagnoses. Data scientists then wrote queries to input the values we wanted and used statistics to better determine which patients were more ill or less ill.” According to Dr. Cowley, the Datathon was a unique opportunity to develop knowledge and skills at the growing interface between technology and medicine. “I got a 10,000-foot view and started asking why we do something the way we do it, by analyzing massive amounts of patient data,” she says. Diffusing Innovation According to Sarah MacArthur, MD, Res. ’11, ’15, director of digital health innovation for Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) and the Center for Healthcare Innovation and Delivery Science (CHIDS) at NYU Langone, the benefits Dr. Cowley reaped from the Datathon are exactly what NYU Langone aims for when exposing medical professionals and students to data science and digital health. “Physicians increasingly receive diagnosis and management suggestions from automatically triggered clinical decision support tools,” says Dr. MacArthur. “While these suggestions are often enormously helpful, it’s essential to understand how these tools are built to fully appreciate their promise and pitfalls. In medical school and residency, we’re taught how to tear apart a New England Journal of Medicine article, look at its methodology, and understand where it might be flawed—but we haven’t yet been taught how to analyze the new knowledge created by data scientists’ analyses of EHRs.” Enter events like Datathon and, immediately following that event, the NYU Langone Health Tech Symposium supported by MCIT and CHIDS. The symposium provided a survey course on artificial intelligence and machine learning in healthcare to more than 500 NYU Langone Health clinicians and medical professionals. “At NYU Langone, we’re enormously fortunate to have an abundance of national experts in healthcare delivery design, predictive analytics, and clinical informatics—most dual trained,” Dr. MacArthur notes. “How do we diffuse their knowledge and skills throughout our entire institution? We’re empowering the average physician to partner with data scientists to generate new knowledge and think about it critically.” Understanding Virtual Health The school’s commitment to teaching innovation can also be found in a two-week elective at NYU Grossman School of Medicine that exposes medical students to the burgeoning field of virtual health and empowers them to educate NYU Langone’s leadership about new ideas for potential implementation. As one of the nation’s first electives in virtual health, Telehealth—Technology Transforming Healthcare Delivery introduces undergraduate and graduate medical students to NYU Langone’s current virtual health practices, including video urgent care visits and online follow-up patient appointments for the Medical Weight Management Program. But Dr. MacArthur, who created the course, notes that its core purpose is not merely to observe; ultimately, it’s to help drive a technology-enabled redesign of healthcare delivery. “We give the learners several questions that come straight from administrative leaders, or they may choose their own question—and they present their findings and recommendations directly to hospital leaders,” she says. One such leader, Viraj Lakdawala, MD, clinical associate professor in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Emergency Medicine, medical director of Virtual Urgent Care, and system chief for Emergency Medicine Telehealth at NYU Langone, recalls how his team harnessed information that virtual health elective students shared. “One of the presentations we acted upon was about determining provider competency when it comes to telemedicine visits,” he explains. “Seeing a patient via telemedicine is a much different skill set from seeing a patient in person. We are working with our colleagues in internal medicine who have expertise in using simulations with standardized patients [actors] to develop a program to measure and determine competency in certain core telemedicine skills.” In this way, the virtual health elective ends up benefiting both the student and the institution. Dr. Sarah MacArthur, Res. '11, '15, speaking at the 2019 Health Tech Symposium “The students’ efforts get embedded because they’ve worked on something that the institution would like to understand more deeply,” Dr. MacArthur says. “This is all about novel delivery design. We are driving forward and we want to create new models to generate knowledge.” Advancing the Three-Pronged Mission Although embedding innovation across NYU Langone may sound daunting, Dr. MacArthur frames it clearly through the lens of the institution’s mission. “When I give talks at digital health conferences, I note that our core tripartite mission is still to serve, teach, and discover—but we seek to reimagine it for the digital era,” she explains. “The NYU Langone virtual health program advances how we serve our patients, bringing healthcare to them where they are. The ways we’re trying to reimagine education—through programs like the Datathon, the Health Tech Symposium, and the virtual health elective—impact teaching as well as discovery, since learners create new knowledge that benefits all of us in our work.” To make sure that NYU Langone remains at the forefront of advancing technology across all three prongs of its mission, the institution and MCIT support multiple collaborative endeavors that foster a robust digital health ecosystem: The Institute for Innovations in Medical Education (IIME) is one of the country’s largest medical education innovation groups. It applies the science of education and informatics to transform teaching, learning, evaluation, and assessment at every level of NYU Langone. CHIDS aims to improve patient outcomes by fostering the development of effective, efficient, and patient-centered learning healthcare systems at NYU Langone and nationally. The Digital Design Lab partners with researchers and clinicians to develop digital health innovations, supporting them from early ideation through product creation. NYU Health Tech Connect tracks potentially disruptive trends, technologies, and companies, channeling their assets to drive institutional objectives. While helping various constituents find their place in digital health, Dr. MacArthur also feels strongly that NYU Langone must continue to seek out the best ideas from wherever they originate. “We’re on the brink of the next golden era of medicine,” she says. “As an institution, we’ve worked very hard to build a robust technologic backbone by deploying Epic. While we lead in the nation, complacency is anathema to the NYU Langone spirit, and we have only just begun to unlock the promise that EHRs hold to generate new knowledge, care for patients, and educate. To that end, it’s critical to remain open and awake to what others can teach us, including medical students and the next generation of leaders.” Written by Sarah M. Jackson NYU Grossman School of Medicine is reimagining teaching and learning. As co-director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Educator Community within the Institute for Innovations in Medical Education (IIME), Michael Poles ’92, Res. ’96, PhD, is uniquely positioned to support his fellow faculty and inspire them to embrace, and even help dream up, technology that enhances teaching and learning. He has been actively involved in curriculum reform and understands that NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s curriculum and education methods must respond to and help shape changing times. Dr. Poles is also assistant dean for medical education in the preclinical sciences; associate professor of medicine and of pathology, specializing in gastroenterology; and a popular teacher. He has received medical school awards for both basic science and clinical teaching, including VA Teacher of the Year in 2010 and Gastroenterology Teacher of the Year five times. Grapevine’s Deborah Schupack recently met with him to learn more about how faculty are harnessing technology to innovate in education. Q. When the newly formed IIME put out a call for faculty partners, you were one of the first to reply.  What was your interest? We deliver the vast majority of our education in the classroom, yet there was a yearning to be able to deliver more content in novel and better ways. With the immensity of medical information to teach students, it is increasingly difficult to impart to them all of the facts that they need to know as physicians. In addition, medical knowledge evolves, which makes it more important to teach them to be flexible thinkers, able to adapt to the mercurial nature of science. I became particularly interested in finding an asynchronous way of delivering key information that could supplement classroom teaching, and I turned to IIME and its precursor, the Division of Educational Informatics, to find or develop e-learning modules for this purpose. Dr. Michael Poles '92, Res. 96, co-director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine's Educator Community within the IIME We could facilitate more active learning by “flipping the classroom”—having students access foundational content at home, then engage in group discussions at a higher level in class with an instructor. This change in format promotes a deeper understanding. We believe it is important to get faculty comfortable and engaged in the process of pedagogical and curricular innovation. Most of our faculty themselves have experienced the traditional, didactic method of teaching. They sat in a classroom, people spoke to them about a medical topic, they took notes, and they studied from those notes. Now, we are asking faculty to consider other ways of delivering that content, potentially involving the use of home grown or outside resources. We are not looking to replace faculty—that’s very important to understand. Our faculty are experts in their fields and can deliver content better than any outside resource. Obviously, the primary way our students will continue to learn is from our faculty. But we can also help them by delivering top-quality resources outside the classroom, so the students enter the room with a deeper level of understanding—and we can take our education to the next level. Q. Are the faculty experiencing a culture shift? The best teachers are typically the best learners, who understand that their own education should be a continuous process. As committed lifelong learners, they are well positioned to promote that drive within our students. The best teachers also want to help others improve their teaching ability. We developed the NYU Grossman School of Medicine Educator Community to bring these inspirational faculty together to work collaboratively, push us to imagine new ways forward in education, and promote best practices. You learn about what’s being developed by others within the community to improve education and you think, “Wow, that’s amazing. I can definitely use that to teach my students or trainees.” Our faculty have all these ambitious ideas for teaching and learning that they want to bring to life. If they tap into the Educator Community, we can help them bring an amazing idea to fruition. Q. How are the IIME and the Educator Community using evidence-based innovations to continually improve teaching and learning? We believe that providing individualized performance data is the key to enhancing learner performance in both undergraduate and graduate medical education [GME], in the same way that it is being used to improve the performance of practicing physicians. In GME, we are now increasing our focus on collation of clinical practice data and delivery of that data back to the trainee to identify, in real time, where gaps in knowledge or practice exist, so that we may react more rapidly in performance improvement. The same way that there’s a continuous quality improvement, or CQI, process for everything else in the institution, there’s a CQI process for students, young doctors, and even faculty educators to help them constantly improve. I will provide an example from my specialty, gastroenterology. When we perform colorectal cancer screening using colonoscopy, it is vital that we identify and remove adenomatous colon polyps that have the potential to develop into a cancer. The data suggests that endoscopists should identify these polyps in approximately 25 to 35 percent of all screening exams. In this new world, we keep track of every fellow’s adenomatous polyp detection rate—meaning, in what percentage of patients does the fellow identify an adenomatous polyp that can potentially develop into a cancer? We’ve collected this data for 10 years now, so every fellow knows how many polyps they’re identifying—essentially, how many cancers they’re preventing—compared with the last 10 years’ worth of fellows. In real time, they can explore this, and other performance data, against expectations and against anonymized data from their peers. If they’re far lower than the norm, we can intervene immediately and identify specific steps to improve their performance and make sure they are meeting benchmarks. Just as we are using just-in-time feedback for students and trainees to improve their performance, we’ve started just-in-time evaluation of lecturers in undergraduate medical education. Before this new initiative, faculty wouldn’t get performance feedback until months after their teaching was provided, when it might no longer be relevant. Now we can deliver that performance data in real time. We can provide lecturers feedback before their next lecture in a module, so they can already be thinking about how they can deliver content better and therefore do a better job at teaching the physicians of tomorrow. The best teachers are typically the best learners, who understand that their own education should be a continuous process. As committed lifelong learners, they are well positioned to promote that drive within our students. Dr. Michael Poles Q. What are you hearing from faculty about the feedback? We hear that for many, this is the first time they’ve gotten specific, actionable feedback, and they are incredibly happy about it. Some are a little daunted by the process, since they are not used to being evaluated immediately after they have completed a task. Still, the best teachers are always seeking to improve, and, just as we use feedback to improve our students’ and trainees’ performance, we have to be open to feedback as teachers—because we should all be involved in practice-based learning and improvement. Q. Your son, Jordan, is a medical student here on the accelerated three-year MD pathway in internal medicine. How do innovation and technology play a role in his medical school experience? Like most of his classmates, he has been steeped in technology for his entire life. Anything that we can envision, this generation of students can bring to life using technology. For example, during his preclinical medical education, Jordan felt that he and his classmates could use more opportunities to reason through difficult clinical cases and grow their clinical reasoning skills. So he developed an app that gives learners access to a communal library of clinical scenarios to help them advance their abilities in a low-stakes learning environment. He’s now working on a second app to help learners better understand arterial blood gas analysis and gain more confidence in their interpretation. Today’s students are full of amazing ideas, and more importantly, they know how to harness technology to deliver those ideas. We get the best medical students in the world, and we must continue to advance how we educate them. Q. You’ve been at NYU Langone for your whole career, except for a five-year stint at UCLA to obtain your PhD. What keeps you here? It’s the NYU Langone vortex. You can only stay away for so long before you get drawn back. When I walked back into Bellevue after five years in LA, all the love that I had for this institution came flooding back. It’s not just a place where you come to work and care for patients. It really is home, where everyone feels like family. Taking care of patients in the modern medical environment can be difficult. But it’s that much easier and more rewarding when you know you can count on everyone around you to be committed to excellence and committed to creating a comfortable, supportive environment that allows you to do your best work. That is what epitomizes this place, and I couldn’t imagine being anywhere else. Written by Deborah Schupack Announcing a new Campaign for Sala Institute to meet the needs of children and families when they need it most Recently we launched an annual campaign to ensure children and their families receive Sala Institute’s vitally important supportive services and resilience programs at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. We met up with Nell Shanahan, Sala Campaign Cabinet chair and the parent of a former patient at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital to learn more about the campaign. What is the Sala Campaign and why is it launching now? The Sala Campaign – what I have described as a kind of “shared commitment,” if you will—is really an effort to both sustain and bolster Sala Institute’s important work—work that exists across four primary domains: safety & quality initiatives, partnerships with families, resiliency programs, and support services. So many of these services are not wholly covered by insurance, and they are the services on which patients and families rely for their healing and wellbeing. This is why we are aiming to raise $1.5 million this year. Hopefully more, actually. As for why we need this campaign right now, I think there are three primary reasons, though I could certainly list a dozen, at least! First, there are greater numbers of patients and families coming to Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital than we have seen previously. Second, our patients and families’ needs are far more complex today and the procedures far more involved. And third, given the increasing rates of anxiety and depression in children and families, Sala’s services are more vital now than ever. Nell Shanahan, Sala Campaign Cabinet Chair, with her family. How did you first become acquainted with Sala Institute? Well, it all started when I first met Trudy and Bob Gottesman over 20 years ago, before Sala was even created, but when they were both already very much involved in supporting NYU Langone and the children and families served both in and outside of the hospital. It was a time in my life where I was not as focused on philanthropy as, perhaps, I should have been. My early twenties! My profession and my personal relationships were at the forefront. But that wouldn’t remain the case for long. Trudy was an incredible role model for me, and her work at the hospital had a profound effect on helping me recognize the importance of looking beyond your profession and your family and taking part in giving back and, in a way, seeking to heal the world.  So that’s the background. Fast forward to the founding of Sala almost 10 years ago now, I knew it was an institute I believed in and wanted to commit my time and resources to help. Little did I know then that my six-year-old daughter Hannah would be hospitalized at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital only a few short months after I joined the Sala Circle. She had a seizure in a pool and required monitoring for several days on one of the inpatient units. What was it like to engage with Sala Institute as a parent, as compared to a donor? It was a profound experience, to say the least. Although it was understandably scary for Hannah and pretty overwhelming for me, the services that I knew came from Sala, and the clinicians who had participated in so many of Sala’s programs, created a space for Hannah to find joy in her days and comfort in mine, knowing we were both being held emotionally, so carefully and, in a way, lovingly too. I recall the first morning after our admission when we were waiting for the doctors to round. We were both not quite sure how the day would unfold. We heard a knock and there in the doorway was a child life specialist offering to make some glittery slime with Hannah. You should have seen Hannah’s face! Overjoyed. Later, we turned on the hospital’s TV channel and Hannah had the opportunity to take a ballet lesson from a principal at the New York City Ballet. Later in the day, we walked down the hallway and found a huge interactive board for doodling to your heart’s content. And that was just the first day. Seeing the kind of work happen live and experiencing the support we received by these clinicians and specialists made me realize how much more I wanted to focus my time and attention on the Institute and all it does for children and families. It was then that I accepted the role of the Sala Campaign Cabinet chair. Why should others consider donating what they can to the Sala Campaign? I touched on earlier this idea of what I see as the importance of seeking to heal the world, wherever that piece of the world is. The idea comes from the Jewish tradition and is described as Tikkun Olam- uniting to heal the world. I love the idea that we can each choose to help others heal beyond our own circles. And I think we all have a responsibility to do just that. I love the idea that we can each choose to help others heal beyond our own circles. And I think we all have a responsibility to do just that. Nell Shanahan Sala Campaign Cabinet Chair Support the Campaign for Sala Five tips to help kids and parents feel better during vaccinations. “Will it hurt?” is an age-old question that children ask when getting a shot. Since the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine was recently approved for children 5 to 11, care teams at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital have been hearing this question a lot. And teams from Sala Institute have worked hard to make getting this vaccine, and other needles and procedures, as pain free as possible for children. One of the care teams’ priorities is making sure that children are able to successfully manage the experience, says Chris Brown, director, Therapeutic Recreation, Child Life & Creative Arts Therapies, part of Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care. Brown and her team have expertise in providing age-appropriate information and helping to keep children distracted during the procedure. “We always consider what we can do to make the experience positive,” she says. Tucker, age five, is comforted by sitting on his mother’s lap while receiving a COVID-19 vaccination, part of Sala’s Comfort 5 Plan “When you think of going to a hospital, it’s rarely something you look forward to, but when it came to getting my kids vaccinated at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, the experience couldn’t have been any more pleasant,” says David, who brought his daughter and son to Hassenfeld from their home in Hoboken, NJ, to be vaccinated. Lessening anxiety before it builds The COVID-19 vaccination needle is very thin and the vaccine is given very quickly, but of course, some children still get anxious, says Brown. Anxiety can build while waiting. Since the Vaccine Center is located in the lobby of Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, Brown and her team use the giant wall mural of Manhattan sights to entertain children, asking them to find different landmarks. Inside the treatment bays where vaccines are administered, kids can play with bubble guns, glitter wands, toys, and other fun items. “They couldn’t wait to get behind the curtain the instant they saw the bubbles floating,” says David. “When all was done, it was the bubbles, the stickers, and the staff’s distractions that they recalled. They seemed to have missed that a needle was used at all.” “Once a child is upset, they usually can’t calm down easily,” says Brown, “so it’s best to distract them and give them an alternative to focus on besides the needle.” Distractions also include counting games and singing, according to Brown, who worked with the nurses in the vaccine center on several techniques. Five steps to maximize comfort Distraction is one technique in the Comfort 5 Plan, a protocol implemented by the Sala team to decrease pain and increase comfort consistently for all pediatric patients during an invasive procedure. The Comfort 5 Plan includes five steps: Partnership with patient/family Positioning the child for comfort Numbing Distraction Sucrose/Breastfeeding When the COVID-19 vaccine was approved for children, Ashley Kydes, MD, medical director of Sala’s Pediatric Pain Management Program, collaborated with the nursing staff on a refresher program on comfort measures while giving an injection. A big part of the process is giving children control, Dr. Kydes says. “A lot of pain and anxiety management rests on letting a child decide how they want to be treated,” she adds “First, we partner with the patient and the family, asking them if there’s anything we can do to make it better for them. “We ask if the child would like to sit on a parent’s or caregiver’s lap, or sit alone,” she says. “We let them decide if they want to be distracted by a toy or a song, and give them the option of what will make it better. Sometimes the parent will help guide them in a decision.” Dr. Kydes also suggests that parents begin preparing children beforehand for any type of shot by discussing the benefits. “Explain that it’ll only pinch for a second, but that the lasting effects will protect them from getting sick and prevent future pain,” she says. The comfort and distraction measures are working, according to the clinicians, who say the COVID-19 vaccine program is going very well. A Manhattan mother says her children had a very good experience getting vaccinated recently at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. “It was an excellent experience with amazing nurses who were kind, caring, and gentle. They provided activities to distract the children that helped pass the time,” she says. “It was great to be scheduled so quickly, easily, and conveniently.” Fetal Diagnosis & Treatment Program We have doctors in New York City and on Long Island. 844-698-4636 Many conditions that can affect the health of your unborn baby can be diagnosed prior to birth, thanks to advances in medical technology. At NYU Langone’s Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment Program, our doctors provide the expert care needed to ensure the healthiest birth possible for you and your baby. includes leading experts in maternal–fetal medicine, genetics, and diagnostic testing, as well as highly specialized pediatric experts from . Their specialties, which are uniquely focused on infants and children, include general surgery , neurosurgery, cardiovascular surgery , neonatology, urology nephrology , and ear, nose, and throat care. We have received advanced perinatal care certification from The Joint Commission, recognizing our excellence in caring for mothers and newborns. Our , along with our obstetric and maternal–fetal medicine services, have been designated by New York State as a Regional Perinatal Center, meaning our doctors provide the highest available level of care for high risk pregnancies.  In our Congenital Cardiovascular Care Unit , our doctors provide treatment for the most complex heart conditions, and our has the best risk-adjusted survival rate of any hospital in New York State. Prenatal Diagnosis We use the latest diagnostic technology to determine the health of your baby while he or she is still in the womb. This includes three- and four-dimensional ultrasound, fetal MRI, and fetal echocardiogram starting as early as 11 weeks of pregnancy. Imaging appointments take place at our locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Our experts provide screening, monitoring, and treatment for expectant mothers experiencing high-risk pregnancies. Learn About Our Maternal–Fetal Services Prenatal tests to evaluate the health of your baby, including fetal blood sampling, chorionic villus sampling, fetal tissue biopsy, amniocentesis, and fetoscopy, are available. We also offer genetic screening for chromosomal abnormalities and other conditions that can be inherited from one or both parents. We manage a host of conditions that can be diagnosed before birth, including complications that can occur during twin pregnancies and developmental conditions that can affect your baby’s heart, lungs, abdominal wall, and other body systems. Prenatal Treatments If your baby has a condition that can be treated before birth, experts at the Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment Program are skilled at the following procedures: amnioreduction to achieve a healthy amount of amniotic fluid fetal injections of medications fetal shunt placement to treat urinary tract blockage or fluid buildup in the chest fetal blood transfusion to treat anemia ex utero intrapartum treatment, also known as EXIT procedure, to treat airway obstruction, severe lung lesions, and certain tumors radiofrequency ablation to treat certain fetal tumors fetoscopic laser photocoagulation of placental vessels, a minimally invasive treatment that stops blood transfer between fetuses in twin pregnancies Our team of neonatologists care for your child after birth, providing immediate access to any additional treatment or therapies your child may need. If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, or an expectant mother who has received a diagnosis at another hospital and would like to refer yourself for care, please call 844-NYU-4MFM ( Our medical team includes experts in maternal–fetal medicine, neonatology, genetics, and numerous pediatric specialties. Ashley S. Roman Program Co-Director Jason C. Fisher Tracy Adams Max M. April Pediatric Otolaryngologist Sean M. Bailey Neonatologist Donna J. Better Sara G. Brubaker Melissa A. Busovsky-McNeal Martin Chavez Anne J. Chun Roberto L. Flores Pediatric Plastic Surgeon Viktor Flores Pediatric Urologist Gillian L. Henry Hye J. Heo Eveline Teresa Hidalgo Emina Hodzic Grace S. Hyun Wendy L. Kinzler Keith A. Kuenzler Pediatric Surgeon View All 53 Doctors & 53 Resources for Children and Families We partner with children and their families to deliver expert medical and surgical care. Learn More About Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital We care for children with congenital heart defects and other heart problems. Learn More About the Pediatric Congenital Heart Program We provide cardiac care to babies and children before and after heart surgery. Learn More About the Congenital Cardiovascular Care Unit Care for Newborns A Clinical Collaboration Helps Mothers & Their Babies Sala partners with NYU Grossman School of Medicine to provide lessons in family-centered care and communications to pediatric residents. Since its inception, has collaborated with the Pediatric Residency Program at NYU Grossman School of Medicine to teach trainees best practices in family-centered care and communication. The cornerstone of this partnership is the Pediatric Residency Communication Curriculum, in which residents benefit from the expertise of both experienced clinicians and Sala’s Patient and Family Faculty members. Patient and Family Faculty are teens or parents of children who are receiving or recently received care at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. “Effective physician-parent communication skills are foundational in Pediatrics,” says Heather B. Howell, MD, director of the Pediatric Residency Program. “The objective of the communications curriculum program is to provide the residents with tools to optimize their communication skills.” Over 100 pediatric residents have participated in Sala’s Pediatric Residency Communication Curriculum developed in partnership with the Pediatric Residency Program at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Building skills over three years The curriculum’s challenging, real-life scenarios take place over the course of the trainee’s three-year residency. Each scenario involves role-plays with an actor and are observed by an experienced clinician and a family faculty member. “The simulations we provide to residents allows them to learn about and practice family communication in a very hands-on way,” says Rachel Ramsey, MHA, administrative director at Sala Institute. “They receive direct, actionable feedback from Sala Family Faculty members and experienced physicians that they can apply in their everyday interactions with patients and families.” Practicing increasingly difficult conversations In year one, the focus is on learning to deliver relationship-centered care. An actor plays the family member while the resident goes through a simulation disclosing a minor medical error to the family. After the simulation, the resident, actor, family faculty, and physician debrief using Sala’s patient and family-centered core competencies as their guide. In year two, residents learn skills to handle challenging conversations with patients or parents. This time, the simulation involves a baby who is unintentionally not receiving enough food at home. The resident must make the actor parent aware of the child’s failure to thrive while maintaining rapport. Debriefs review how to have conversations with families in challenging circumstances that impact their child’s health and wellbeing. “Recently, I had to tell a mother that her premature infant was not responding to the therapies used to treat his illness. The mother had been suffering and experiencing significant distress,” says Dr. Dr. Jenna Berson, a recent graduate of the Pediatric Residency Program. “I could feel myself wanting to jump in and reassure her, but I was guided by the discussion with the Sala family advisor and spent more time quietly listening to this mother share what she was feeling without offering her blanket statements of reassurance.” In their final year, residents learn to manage difficult conversations in three simulated discussions: expressing concern for the family’s intentional physical harm to a child, a conversation in the emergency room about a possible new cancer diagnosis after what was supposed to be a routine well baby visit, and disclosing a serious medical error. The third year closes with an interactive session co-led by Family Faculty members and the residency program director. Family faculty offer their personal perspectives on doctor-family communication during some of the most pivotal moments in their children’s lives. Lasting impact on graduates “What families shared was often directly applicable to the next conversation I was having with a parent and the feedback has stayed with me during my residency and now into my fellowship,” says Dr. Berson. To date, more than 100 pediatric residents have participated in at least one year of the program, which began in 2019. In June 2022, all 20 graduating residents were the first cohort to experience all three years of the curriculum. Sala Institute provides vital supportive services and resilience programs to children and families and partners with healthcare providers to deliver the safest, highest quality care possible at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. This powerful combination of services helps children heal and families feel supported. This type of care is absolutely essential, and it is made possible with generous philanthropic support. Support the Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care. A story by Mahathi V. A lot can happen in a year. You can receive life-changing news, go from healthy to hospital-bound, and make new connections that will stay with you for a lifetime. For me, 2022 was a year I could have never imagined. In February, I was diagnosed with gastric cancer. In March, I had surgery. In the summer, chemo. The winter, immunotherapy. As a PhD student studying epidemiology at NYU School of Global Public Health and research coordinator in NYU Langone Health’s Department of Population Health, I was used to viewing health in terms of statistics and scientific research, so when my diagnosis came in, I was scared about my own health and future—and where I would land among the numbers. The challenges piled up from there, and during each setback and success, I had supporters by my side: my husband and parents, but also my surgeon, my gastroenterologist, my oncologist, nurses, technicians, therapists, and staff in all corners of NYU Langone and its Perlmutter Cancer Center. I found it was the people in my life—old and new—that got me through the toughest moments. It started as heartburn. At least I thought it was. Like most early 30-somethings, I was hopeful Tums and some light diet changes would solve my issues. Everyone gets heartburn. Why would an otherwise healthy young person need to see a doctor about it? But when my heartburn transformed into debilitating stomach pains, my family urged me to seek help. After an emergency room visit and appointments with different doctors, I ended up at NYU Langone with GI specialist Bart Kummer, MD. My first endoscopy revealed a large peptic ulcer. A follow-up uncovered something more drastic: behind the ulcer was a cancerous tumor. From there, Dr. Kummer and a team of other outstanding specialists helped me navigate my immediate future. Paul Oberstein, MD, met with me about my cancer outlook, Elizabeth Fino, MD, consulted with me about my husband’s and my family planning, and Paresh Shah, MD, met with me to discuss my surgery options. About a week after my initial diagnosis, we had a plan in place for my next steps. Mahathi and Dr. Paresh Shah My surgeon became like an uncle to me. From Day 1, I felt very connected to Dr. Paresh Shah. He seemed like an incredibly kind person, and I trusted him immediately. I think that’s critical for a patient, especially for someone who’s never had surgery before in her life. The surgery was no easy task either. Dr. Shah, with the help of a robot, laparoscopically removed 80 percent of my stomach and 100 percent of the tumor. He cared not just about doing the surgery right and doing the surgery well but also about my quality of life after the surgery. It didn’t feel like he was focused only on getting the job done and moving on to the next patient. It felt like he was really invested in me as a patient and my well-being, and my parents felt the same way. My parents were essential to my recovery, and they also built deep connections with my NYU Langone care team. When my dad had three pages of questions following my surgery, Dr. Shah patiently answered every single one and gave my dad time out of his very busy schedule. When I suffered a terrifying episode weeks after the surgery and fainted in the shower, my parents took me all the way from their home in Princeton, New Jersey, where I was recovering, to NYU Langone’s Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services in Manhattan. Everyone stepped up to help me through my journey. Four weeks after surgery and a frightening bout with COVID-19, I received pathology results showing my journey was not yet complete. I needed chemotherapy. Dr. Oberstein at Perlmutter Cancer Center is truly the nicest person that I have ever met. He’s so calm and kind, and I think being an oncologist is the perfect profession for him because when you meet him, your worries just dissipate. They just go away. My bonds within NYU Langone deepened over the next few months. My weekly chemotherapy visits, while exhausting, turned into social meetups with the nurses. I looked forward to seeing the people who cared for me, formed real friendships with them, and even requested to see certain nurses on a regular basis. We connected and got to know each other, and I got the chance to talk about something other than my health, like discussing the latest Beyoncé album with Ginelle and Adiel. I never felt scared or alone there. I always felt like I could ask questions and be heard. I look to the future with hope. A year after receiving my cancer diagnosis, I’m continuing immunotherapy and looking forward with hope and positivity. I faced challenges I certainly hadn’t expected, but after surgery, chemotherapy, and countless visits to NYU Langone’s clinics, I’m trying to resume a part of my old life: completing my PhD, working, spending time with friends and family, and planning to start a family of my own. For me as a researcher, it’s important to know that my doctors are keeping up with the current literature and incorporating the latest innovations into their practice. I could see how much my providers were doing behind the scenes to make sure they were on the front lines of their work. My experience as a patient at NYU Langone has had an impact on my work for my PhD as well: I’ve decided to alter my research topic to focus on adults who smoke cigarettes and vape e-cigarettes with gastric ulcers, gastrointestinal bleeding, and gastric cancer. I have tremendous gratitude for my new NYU Langone family. I never knew the extent to which my colleagues and community would go to support me as well as the other thousands of people facing cancer in New York. When I asked Dr. Shah what I could do to repay him for his lifesaving care, he simply replied, “I just want you to finish your PhD. Send me a photo of you at graduation. That’s what I want to see.” That’s something my dad would have said to me. The kind of care NYU Langone provides—it really does make you feel like you’re part of the family. Our doctors see patients in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Endometriosis Symptom Questionnaire At NYU Langone’s Endometriosis Center, we understand the profound impact that can have on various aspects of your life. The condition, which occurs when tissue from the uterine lining spreads and attaches to other pelvic areas, goes beyond mere physical discomfort—it can cause profound pelvic pain, especially during menstruation and sexual intercourse. Endometriosis can also impact fertility, sexual health, and overall quality of life. Endometriosis Center Webinar Series Our experts host live webinars on topics related to endometriosis, including pain, fertility, and treatment options. Learn More About Our Webinars At NYU Langone, our team understands these challenges. We know that the success of any treatment plan lies in focusing on you. Our treatment strategies address your symptoms and prioritize your personal health goals. Diagnosing Endometriosis When you first meet with us, we want to learn as much as we can about your medical history, including how long you have experienced symptoms and when they occur. We also perform a targeted physical examination to better understand the source of your pelvic pain. This thorough assessment forms the foundation of your treatment plan. VIDEO: Gynecologist Dr. Kathy Huang talks about her team of medical experts at the Endometriosis Center who specialize in treating women who have endometriosis. In advanced cases, endometriosis can spread to surrounding areas, such as the bowel or bladder. If this is suspected, we may recommend additional diagnostic measures. Our skilled radiologists, who specialize in endometriosis imaging, may conduct an MRI scan or targeted pelvic ultrasound to better understand the best treatment approach, which may include surgery. Our Treatment Approach If you prefer nonsurgical options and are not actively trying to conceive, our specialists can work with you to determine the most suitable medical treatment . This may include oral contraceptives, hormone therapy, and pain medication. When surgical treatment is the best option for relieving your symptoms, you are matched with the surgeon best suited to your treatment needs. Our surgeons use minimally invasive techniques, including laparoscopic and robotic-assisted surgical techniques , to remove endometrial growths and scar tissue. These techniques rely on very small incisions, which result in faster recovery time and less discomfort. These procedures can increase the ability to conceive. If endometriosis has spread to surrounding organs, we bring together a team of surgeons who ensure that every aspect of your condition is addressed with expertise and precision. Our commitment is to provide you with a holistic and personalized treatment journey that leads to a reduction or elimination of symptoms, promoting your wellbeing at every step. Recognizing the debilitating impact of pain on both physical and emotional health, we offer advanced pain relief therapies, including nerve blocks and trigger point injections, to alleviate pain and reduce swelling and inflammation. Additionally, we can connect you with who provide rehabilitation therapies to ease pelvic pain. Our Support Programs and Services At NYU Langone, our mental health providers, including our sexual health therapist, address concerns involving intimacy and the emotions that can accompany life with endometriosis. The Leveraging Integrative Health in the Treatment of Endometriosis (LIGHTE) Program offers resources to help you manage the physical and emotional effects of endometriosis treatment. Our weekly meditation group, held in partnership with NYU Langone’s , promotes improved sleep, stress reduction, and overall wellbeing. Patients can also benefit from other integrative health services, including the Mind–Body Patient Bedside Care Program during a hospital stay and outpatient services such as acupuncture treatment. In this free series, our diverse team of experts covers topics such as pain management, fertility, and sexual wellness. Visit NYU Langone’s YouTube channel for an archive of all our videos. Connect with an Expert By providing information about your symptoms, we can connect you with an endometriosis expert to learn more about diagnosis and treatment options. Submit the Endometriosis Symptom Questionnaire Connect with Our Experts Many individuals with endometriosis experience years of pain and unnecessary delays in diagnosis before receiving care. We encourage you to take our to connect with one of our experts and learn more about diagnosis and treatment options. Your journey to relief and wellbeing begins with us. Our surgeons, radiologists, reproductive endocrinologists, and experts in pain management and sex therapy address all aspects of life with endometriosis. Kathy Huang Chady Atallah Colorectal Surgeon Mitchell A. Bernstein Catherine W. Chan Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgeon Erica Dun Gynecologist Christopher N. Eswar Nicole M. Hindman Abdominal Imaging Specialist William C. Huang Urologic Oncologist Meera K. Kirpekar Kelsey Kossl Kopal S. Kulkarni Interventional Radiologist Ted T. Lee Director, Division of Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery Frederick L. Licciardi Reproductive Endocrinologist Ruth A. Tessler Virginia A. Sadock Psychiatrist 212-545-5400 At age 60, I ran my first marathon for NYU Langone As a palliative care social work manager, it’s my job to reach beyond medicine to comfort people with serious illnesses. I supervise a team of social workers at NYU Langone Health who have dedicated their careers to understanding the needs of patients and giving them fulfilling experiences in the face of health crises. Sometimes it’s a simple gesture like helping a family member with parking. Other times, it’s coordinating a wedding in our hospital so terminally ill parents can see their adult children get married. Our days our often not easy, but having the ability to bring people together during a time of need can be a very beautiful thing. I find it a privilege to be able to enter the lives of patients and families and witness their most tender moments. Over the years, my brother Brian has led a life dedicated to helping others as well. As the executive director for sales for the New England Patriots and a passionate sports fan, Brian started the nonprofit Golf Fights Cancer alongside his longtime friend Jay Monahan, who is now the commissioner of the PGA Tour. Their goal was to harness the philanthropic power of the sports community and raise funds for cancer-related charities in honor of a friend who died from cancer. Brian has run more than 25 Boston Marathons in association with Golf Fights Cancer, fundraising for cancer-based organizations in the Boston area and beyond. At age 60, I thought it was time to start catching up with Brian and decided to run my first marathon in support of NYU Langone’s palliative care team. Doing the hard work with a mission to help When I got the idea to run the Boston Marathon, I knew it was now or never because I’m getting older. After a trip to Boston’s famous Heartbreak Hill early on in my training, I experienced the strain of how difficult this feat would be. There was definitely some heartbreak involved during that day of training, but my brother and I laugh about it now knowing what we ended up achieving. From January to April, I took advantage of the mild winter and ran through the neighborhoods near my new home in Westchester and visited the NYU Langone running clinic to get some tips on how to maximize my potential as a runner. Throughout these months, I also reached out to the people in my life to help with my fundraising goal. The support I got from friends and family was totally overwhelming and heartwarming. Across the board, everyone has been touched by cancer—either themselves or with a family member. It’s a cause so universal that everyone has a story to tell and a personal reason to give. Together, we ended up raising $226,200, a fitting and symbolic number for the race’s 26.2 miles. Across the board, everyone has been touched by cancer—either themselves or with a family member. It’s a cause so universal that everyone has a story to tell and a personal reason to give. The funds raised will help my colleagues on the palliative care team continue to go above and beyond for their patients. A windfall of new possibilities for palliative care There are many services we’ll be able to offer with the funds raised. We can be as creative as possible to provide patients care beyond their expectations. While the marathon was a gut-wrenching multi-hour event, bringing my loved ones together and awarding my team at NYU Langone with the ability to change lives was 100 percent worth it. I’ve still got more than 25 marathons to go to catch up with Brian, but this one meant the world to me—and to the cancer patients in the palliative care unit where an everyday gesture can change one’s outlook forever. Thank you to everyone who helped me and donated to this life-changing work. And if you’ve ever thought about running a marathon in support of a cause that is meaningful to you, go for it! Samara Sweig shares her experience of having twin girls prematurely and how she’s giving back today through Sala Institute In the fall of 2013, Samara Sweig gave birth to twin girls, Tilly and Ivy, at just 28 weeks. During the many weeks that followed, specialists at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital cared for the twins around the clock in the KiDS of NYU Langone Foundation Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and tended to the needs of Samara and Louis, her husband. Today, Tilly and Ivy are thriving—and Samara participates in the Sala Family Advisory Council to pay forward her family’s transformational experience. What was it like to give birth to twins at just 28 weeks? Samara: It was frightening. There were so many unknowns and fears that came along with their birth. We didn’t know if they would be born alive, or if they would be able to breathe, because they were born so early and were so small. It was overwhelming and scary. How did you manage this fear when Tilly and Ivy were brought to the NICU after they were born? For the first 24 hours, I was really afraid to see them. But once I did, as any mother would feel, I wanted to do anything I could for them. In the NICU, babies have so many medical needs that parents can sometimes feel like bystanders. In time and with the help of the NICU staff, my husband and I learned of the different ways that we could participate in their care. I pumped around the clock so they could have Mamma’s milk. We provided them kangaroo care for hours every day. We talked to them, held their hands, and were eventually able to bottle-feed and change them. Samara, Louis and ten-year-old twins, Tilly and Ivy How are Tilly and Ivy doing now? They’re our little miracles. They’re nine years old. They’re fierce, smart, and kind. They’re tall, like their father, and beautiful. They’re strong; Ivy recently completed a 5K run and Tilly just finished the soccer season. They truly amaze us, and I constantly remind them that they can do anything—because they’ve already done the hard part. Babies born at 28 weeks don’t always thrive the way that Tilly and Ivy did, so I count my blessings every day. Receiving the care and support of this amazing children’s hospital was a huge part of their really hard and miraculous journey. The support that we got from the hospital didn’t just end the day that the girls were discharged from the NICU. It continued as we met with an interdisciplinary care team every six months for the first two years to see if they’d need any extra support during those early times. Tell us about the Sala Institute Family Advisory Council. Why did you join and what is your role? After our last visit with the NICU follow-up team eight years ago, the woman running the program told me about the Sala Family Advisory Council and asked if I might be interested in joining. It sounded exactly like something I wanted to do. After spending so much time in a hospital, you have so many thoughts on what worked well and what could have been better. It’s remarkable to be included in an opportunity where feedback from families is sought after with the goal of providing exceptional care to patients and their families. I’ve been a part of the Family Advisory Council for eight years. As council members, we’ve weighed in on unbelievable initiatives and met with the heads of most departments. We’re asked what we think of new projects and we share ideas for how to make them better. This work sounds really unique. It really is. It’s best in class. We’re very fortunate to have this caliber of children’s hospital in the New York area—one that exceeds medical standards and puts children and families at the center of its work thanks to Sala Institute. I thought I had 90 days to live. Now I’m a national powerlifting champion and training for the 2025 Senior Games in pole vault. At 70 years old, I had lived an accomplished life. I was a husband and the father of three, and had a successful career as a New York Times advertising executive. However, many of my greatest feats were yet to come: tackling cancer, dedicating my life to physical fitness, launching a championship-winning weight-lifting career, and becoming a role model for anyone who’s looking to make a change. Over Thanksgiving weekend in 2019, I was diagnosed with stage four liver cancer. I was staying with family in our country home in Upstate New York when I received the diagnosis from a local hospital and quickly made my way to New York City and NYU Langone, where I had long received care. I was shocked and stunned. After some initial research, I assumed I had about 90 days to live. But after a biopsy, NYU Langone oncologist Paul Oberstein, MD, and his team reassured me that the cancer was slow-growing and that I had every chance to live, with the caveat that I must improve my physical health, change my diet, and exercise more. “You don’t have to tell me twice,” I told Dr. Oberstein. “I’m going to be the most physically fit patient you’ve ever seen in your entire life!” What may have seemed like a joke turned into a deeply committed personal declaration. At that point, I wasn’t super active. I had quit smoking 15 years prior, but no one told me the downside of alcohol during my days entertaining international clients in the advertising world! I needed to create a regimen that would improve my fitness and help me beat this disease. From there, I was determined to be as fit as I could possibly be. I started by walking 30 minutes a day. Then I ran. I lifted weights. Then heavier weights. I changed how I ate and virtually quit drinking. I watched hours of YouTube tutorials on abdominal workouts, push-pull-legs workouts, and everything in between. My wife, Juliana, and I built a fully equipped home gym in our three-car garage during COVID to safely work out; our cars became relegated to the driveway. I logged sub-nine-minute mile times and bench-pressed my weight. Then, this past year, after five years of health progress, a minor skin cancer scare, and hours upon hours of working out and getting stronger, I entered the American Drug-Free Powerlifting Federation National Competition. Embodying my rallying cry of being the most physically fit patient ever, I won my age/weight class and was crowned over-75 champion. As Juliana put it, “If we’re going to drive five and a half hours for this, you better win…No pressure!!” Over the course of my health journey, I’ve been lucky to serve as an inspiration to my family and loved ones. My son, Paris, and daughter Tiffany now compete in body-building competitions, and my daughter Caroline has started her fitness program as well. All have developed an affinity for fitness. Having been forced to make changes myself, I now love helping others reach their health goals. “Just move!” I say. No matter your age or your fitness level, you can start with walking and simple exercises like jumping jacks to get on a path to better health. NYU Langone’s care changed my life. Although it took immense self-motivation to become a powerlifting champion, my doctors and nurses were the expert guides I needed to take on cancer. Every time you go into NYU Langone, you feel like you’re somebody special. You feel like people care for you and they bend over backward to give you the best experience they can. Another reason I love my care at NYU Langone is the online MyChart app. I can contact all my doctors, ask questions, make appointments, review all my test results, and check my medications all in one place, online 24/7. I don’t feel like a number or an ID when I’m there. I feel like I’m Paul Perkins, and they’ve done their research; they know who I am. I learned their stories, too, and have been inspired by who my doctors and nurse practitioners are as people. It took a team of healthcare professionals to get my health on course and give me the strength (no pun intended) to achieve my goals. A special thank you to Paul E. Oberstein, MD, Shantal Ginsberg, RN, Zefie Kanos, NP, Kent P. Friedman, MD, and Irvine Lee for my liver cancer treatment; Jennifer Ann Stein, MD, and Maressa C. Criscito, MD, for my skin cancer treatment; Kenneth Vera, MD, my primary care physician; and Gregory M. Katz, MD, for my heart health. Next year, 2025, my goal is to compete in the National Senior Games in powerlifting, as well as the pole vault, long jump, and high jump. My philosophy is to just strengthen my core as much as possible and build my muscles. I will then concentrate on the jumping techniques as I continue to grow the jumping muscles. I think it is important to continuously challenge yourself to keep your interest in exercising at a high level. Set tough goals. In the meantime, I’ll remain close to NYU Langone, getting tests done when needed and keeping my care team in my thoughts as I conquer more fitness challenges and try to inspire more people. Thanks to NYU Langone, I had a wake-up call and the support I needed to transform my life. I learned that when you have a chance to get healthy, you can’t give up. You just have to do it. Just move! We loved understanding what was important to Paul and tailoring his treatment as much as possible to accommodate him achieving his goals . . . On our team, we particularly love connecting with people and knowing things about their personal lives that will guide them accomplishing their goals with therapy. Instead of thinking about how to treat the cancer, we ask, ‘How do we treat the person? Paul E. Oberstein, MD Service Chief, Gastrointestinal Medical Oncology Program Celebrate the FACES Community Date Location FACES (Finding A Cure for Epilepsy and Seizures) and the NYU Langone Comprehensive Epilepsy Center are incredibly grateful for the tremendous generosity displayed for FACES Gala 2024. The evening was a testament to the resilience and unity of the FACES community, including individuals with epilepsy, their families and friends, volunteers, physicians, and researchers. The remarkable success of the gala is a testament to the collective efforts of attendees, donors, sponsors, auction participants, and volunteers, numbering over 700 strong. Together, we raised an impressive $5.5 million! These funds will directly benefit innovative research, enhance patient care, and bolster vital programs that ease the challenges faced by epilepsy patients and their families. They will support initiatives such as the Parent Network, FACES Apartments, Dr. Blanca Vazquez Summer Camp Scholarship, and FACES College Scholarship, along with offering annual free events like Game Day, the Peace of Mind Lecture series, and the Epilepsy Conference. Our sincerest gratitude goes to the whole FACES community for their unwavering commitment in advancing our shared mission. Gala Chairs Danielle and Tom Walker Honorees Daniel Friedman, MD Luis Valero Special Guest Busy Philipps Special Video Appearance Harrison Ford Auction Chairs Andrea and Anthony Melchiorre Get In Touch: 646-558-0900 facesgala@nyulangone.org Couldn't make it? Give to FACES Athletic Achievement Fuels Medical Discovery D10 Training Camp is an evolution of the wildly popular and impactful Wall Street Decathlon. D10 Training Camp 2024 brings together an invite-only audience of investors, operators, and policymakers. These “teams of rivals” come together for spirited, athletic competition and debate, catalyzed by a collective goal to accelerate clinical trials at NYU Langone Health’s Perlmutter Cancer Center that could transform the way cancer is treated. D10 Training Camp’s curated community uses its collective resources to support researchers on the front lines of new cancer therapy innovations. Although its name and format have evolved, D10’s mission remains the same; to fund early stage clinical trials with lifesaving potential. One hundred percent of funds raised support investigator-initiated trials (IITs) for cancer therapies. These early-stage studies rely on philanthropic funding to bring new and exciting ideas to the testing phase. D10 Training Camp’s participants make a real impact by providing researchers with critical resources to take these potentially revolutionary treatments from the lab to patients. communitygiving@nyulangone.org. Support early stage clinical trials Transforming health on Long Island View the event photo gallery The Beginning of a New Era for NYU Langone on Long Island On June 3, our community rallied together to support NYU Langone’s world-class care on Long Island and honor Steven M. Kobren, MD, with the creation of the Steven M. Kobren, MD Endowed Fellowship. With one day of golf, friendship, and connection, we were able to lay the foundation of a lasting legacy for NYU Langone and Long Island. The new fellowship will allow us to elevate healthcare for thousands, educate the next generation of leading physicians, and ensure the most innovative treatments in medicine are brought to Long Island. Thank you to all who attended and pledged their support to building a healthier future with us. The most special thank you goes out to Steven M. Kobren, MD, our 2024 honoree , for his service to the people of Long Island and for spearheading NYU Langone’s expansion in the area. Thanks to his accomplishments, we are able to embark on a bold new era of health on Long Island and bringing state-of-the-art care to vast numbers of people. Thank you to the chairs of the event. Your dedication to improving the health of your community is greatly admired, and we appreciate you partnering with all of us in transforming healthcare. Our 2024 Co-Chairs: Michael Scott Cohen, Heidi Horowitz, Richard Horowitz, Shepard T. Poole, Stephen E. Rach II, Michael L. Rafferty, Jay Raubvogel, Nicholas J. Rosato Jr. 646-754-4810 LIGolf@nyulangone.org Celebrating NYU Grossman School of Medicine Alumni View Event Gallery Thank You for Making Reunion Weekend So Special Thank you for joining the extraordinary alumni of NYU Grossman School of Medicine at the 2023-2024 Alumni Reunion. We paid special tribute to classes ending in 3s, 4s, 8s, and 9s, and congratulated the 50th anniversary classes of ’73 and ’74 and the 25th anniversary classes of ’98 and ’99. Wayne Holman, MD ’98 was honored as the Solomon A. Berson Alumni Achievement Awardee. David B. Beck, MD ’14, PhD ’12 was honored as the Julia Zelmanovich Young Alumni Awardee. Anthony J. Grieco ’63, who recently announced his plans to retire from his position as associate dean of alumni relations, was also celebrated for his lifetime of service to our school. Thank you to everyone who attended. We greatly appreciate your commitment to your alma mater and the future of medical education! View the official Alumni Reunion program View photos from Alumni Reunion 212-263-5390 alumnireunion@nyulangone.org Support NYU Grossman School of Medicine NYU Langone Department of Urology Keynote Speaker Robert Montgomery, MD, PhD H. Leon Pachter, MD Professor of Surgery, Department of Surgery at NYU Grossman School of MedicineChair, Department of Surgery at NYU Grossman School of MedicineDirector, NYU Langone Transplant Institute Featured Speakers Assistant Professor, Department of Urology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Christopher E. Kelly, MD Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Urology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Hossein Sadeghi-Nejad, MD Professor, Department of Urology at NYU Grossman School of MedicineProfessor, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at NYU Grossman School of MedicineDirector, Men’s Health, Urology (212) 404-3757 Megan.Trenery@nyulangone.org Can't attend? Support 2024 Urology FunRaiser FACES invites you to We are immensely grateful for the unwavering support and involvement exhibited at freshFACES 2024! Because of your generosity, we successfully raised $200,000 to directly benefit FACES (Finding A Cure for Epilepsy and Seizures) and the NYU Langone Comprehensive Epilepsy Center. The event, held on Thursday, September 12 at Camp David in Industry City, Brooklyn, brought over 220 guests including individuals with epilepsy, their families, medical professionals, and researchers for an unforgettable evening of hope and community. This year’s freshFACES was a tremendous success and we owe it to the compassion and dedication of everyone who supported – whether by attending, purchasing a sponsorship, making a contribution, participating in the auction, or volunteering. Your involvement will make a profound impact on the lives of many. All proceeds will drive essential FACES programs and epilepsy research, bringing us closer to our shared goal of finding a cure. FACESInfo@NYULangone.org Support 2024 freshFACES Department of Urology’s Annual FunRaiser On September 27, 2023, we celebrated Herbert Lepor, MD, Martin Spatz Chair, Department of Urology, and his 30 years at NYU Langone Health. Guests were treated to an insightful fireside chat with Dr. Lepor and Ken Langone, chair of the Board of Trustees, and got an inside look at advancements in urology from faculty speakers. Our gratitude goes out to all who attended this special event. Your overwhelming support helps the Department of Urology continue to be a relentless innovator and a top educator in the field. Thank you for honoring Dr. Lepor and your commitment to the Department of Urology! Herbert Lepor, MD Professor, Department of Urology Professor, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology Martin Spatz Chair, Department of Urology Chief, Urology LaMont J. Barlow, MD Assistant Professor, Department of Urology Assistant Professor, Department of Pathology Director, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Department of Urology Natasha Gupta, MD Research Assistant Professor, Department of Urology Research Assistant Professor, Department of Population Health Philip T. Zhao, MD Chief, Urology Stone Program, Tisch Hospital 212-404-3757 Support 2023 Urology FunRaiser Celebrate the Sala Community In honor of its tenth anniversary, Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care celebrated its decade-long commitment to enhancing care, patient experience, quality, and safety for children and families on November 6. Sala-bration guests heard directly from patient families, frontline healthcare providers, NYU Langone leaders, and Trudy Elbaum Gottesman and Robert W. Gottesman, Sala Institute’s co-founders, on the difference Sala has made in caring for children with complex and chronic illnesses. The night was filled with joy and dancing inspired by the Bobby Gee’s, a rock and roll band led by Bob Gottesman. Over 200 people attended the event and Sala raised over $2.1 million. These funds will directly benefit children who receive care at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone and their families through Sala’s supportive services, resilience programs, partnership programs, and safety and quality initiatives. Thank you to all members of the Sala community for your generosity! Thank you to Sala-bration’s corporate sponsors! FACES Epilepsy Conference 2023 For Patients and Families Apr 30, 2023 8:30 AM - 3:00 PM NYU Langone Health Main Floor, Murphy Auditorium NYU Langone Long Island Golf Classic 2023 $343,000 170 golfers Jun 5, 2023 The Violet Ball 2023 Celebrating $2 billion raised since 2019 Nov 1, 2023 The Metropolitan Museum of Art 2023 FACES Gala 600 $5 million Mar 6, 2023 Pier 60 at Chelsea PiersNew York, NY 10011 2022 Alumni Reunion 400+ Nearly $4M Oct 7, 2022 - Oct 8, 2022 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s 2022 Golf Classic $326,800 revenue 180 Jun 6, 2022 Gastroenterology Fellowship Graduation 2022 Jun 14, 2022 The Water Club500 East 30th StreetNew York, NY 10016 If you are concerned that your child has COVID-19, NYU Langone doctors can provide diagnostic testing, including a rapid antigen test. We offer rapid COVID-19 testing, also known as antigen testing, for symptomatic children at certain NYU Langone pediatric care locations. With this option, your child can be tested quickly in the comfort and safety of a pediatrician’s office. This test is performed by using a nasal swab, and results are generally available within 20 minutes. Symptomatic infants and children of all ages may receive this test. COVID-19 symptoms  in children include fever or chills, cough, congestion or runny nose, loss of taste or smell, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, body aches, fatigue, headache, sore throat, and nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea. If your child is exhibiting any of these symptoms, please contact your child’s pediatrician to determine if an in-office visit for rapid COVID-19 antigen testing is recommended. Because COVID-19 has many of the same symptoms as the , your child’s doctor may also recommend rapid flu testing. NYU Langone offers patients 6 months and older the , including updated boosters. Here are answers to some of your questions about the safety of the vaccine, how it works, and who should get vaccinated and why. Who is eligible for an updated COVID-19 vaccine? The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that everyone age 6 years and older receive an updated COVID-19 vaccine regardless of whether they received the vaccine previously. The updated monovalent vaccines from Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna protect against currently circulating strains of the COVID-19 virus. Children ages 6 months to 5 years of age may need one or two doses to be up to date on their recommended vaccines, depending on the number of doses and the original vaccine they received. The CDC provides information about staying up to date on COVID-19 vaccines and boosters Why do healthy people need to be vaccinated? Even healthy people are at risk of severe COVID-19 infection and can develop serious complications. Although healthy people are less likely to be hospitalized than those with certain underlying medical conditions, they can become severely ill and are as likely to experience long-term health effects after the initial infection. This is known in the medical community as post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC), or as “long-haul COVID.” When healthy people are vaccinated, they help reduce the spread of COVID-19 by limiting the virus’s opportunity to spread from person to person. Vaccination is also a way that healthy people can protect people who are at high risk for complications from contracting COVID-19. By getting vaccinated, you are protecting yourself, your family, and your community by helping control the spread of the disease. Should children get vaccinated against COVID-19? The Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna vaccines are approved for use in children and infants as young as 6 months. Compared to other age groups, the rates of severe illness and hospitalization from COVID-19 are lower in people under age 18, but COVID-19 infection at any age can result in hospitalization, inflammatory conditions, and long-term side effects. Clinical trials showed the COVID-19 vaccine to be as effective in children as in adults in reducing infections, and more importantly, preventing the risk of hospitalization. Can pregnant or breastfeeding people get the COVID-19 vaccine? Along with the CDC, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the Society for Maternal–Fetal Medicine recommend that all pregnant and breastfeeding people receive the COVID-19 vaccine and booster. Tens of thousands of people have received the vaccine while pregnant. The data show there are no safety risks and that vaccination reduces the risk of severe maternal COVID-19 and preterm delivery. The vaccine also appears to be just as effective for pregnant people as it is for the general population. This is especially important because pregnant individuals are at high risk of severe complications should they become infected with COVID-19. Vaccination before or during pregnancy can also protect your baby after birth , as the mother’s antibodies pass on to the infant while in utero. We recommend that people who are pregnant or breastfeeding talk with their obstetricians about any concerns they have regarding vaccination. Will the COVID-19 vaccine affect fertility? There is no evidence that the COVID-19 vaccine affects fertility in women or men. There is no data to support the belief that the vaccine or the resulting immune reaction has any effect on conception, fetal development, or miscarriage risk. If the spike protein antibody created by the vaccine caused infertility, an infection with COVID-19 should also, and there is no evidence that it does. Talk with your doctor about any concerns you have about the vaccine and future family planning. How can I be sure the vaccine is safe? More than 80 percent of all Americans have already received the COVID-19 vaccine, with more than 56 million people receiving at least one bivalent booster dose. NYU Langone has been involved in testing COVID-19 vaccines through clinical trials at our , which is 1 of 10 Vaccine and Treatment Evaluation Units in the United States funded by the National Institutes of Health. (The Vaccine Center is a research center and is not involved in giving vaccines to the general public.) The FDA reviewed data from those extensive clinical trials, which showed that the vaccine is safe and that its benefits outweigh its known or potential risks. Three vaccines—Pfizer–BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson/Janssen—have received Emergency Use Authorization from the FDA, which is a special approval during a public health emergency that is based on strong evidence of safety. The Pfizer–BioNTech vaccine has been granted full FDA approval for use in people age 12 and older. The FDA granted full approval for the Moderna vaccine in people age 18 and older. Full approval is based on updated data from the initial clinical trials, including research into long-term side effects. The Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna vaccines for use in children continue to be distributed under Emergency Use Authorization. Vaccines work by priming the body’s immune system to fight the virus. Vaccine reactions, such as a sore arm, headache, fatigue, or nausea, are normal and are signs that the body is responding to the vaccine. We encourage you to talk with your doctor about any questions or concerns you have about the vaccine, so you can make an informed decision. If vaccinated people can still get COVID-19, does that mean that the vaccines are ineffective? COVID-19 infections do occur in fully vaccinated people. However, fully vaccinated people with infections tend to experience much milder symptoms or no symptoms at all, and the vaccines continue to provide strong protection against severe disease that can lead to hospitalization and death. Hospitalization and death rates for fully vaccinated people remain exceedingly low. Can I get COVID-19 from the vaccine? No, you cannot get COVID-19 from any of the COVID-19 vaccines because they do not contain elements capable of making you sick. There are two types of COVID-19 vaccines currently available: messenger RNA (mRNA) and viral vector vaccines. The Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna vaccines use mRNA to send a message to the cells on how to make a certain harmless spike protein that is unique to the virus that causes COVID-19. With those vaccines, your cells use the mRNA information to create a unique spike protein that is found on the surface of the coronavirus. The protein cannot make you sick on its own. But it plays an important role: it introduces your immune system to a protein that it has never seen before, and gives it the opportunity to create antibodies against it. This way, if your body is ever confronted by the actual coronavirus, your immune system already knows which antibodies it needs to kill the virus and protect you from illness. Are there any reasons a person should not get vaccinated? There are no diagnoses or conditions that prohibit a person from being vaccinated, but certain people should consult with their doctor before getting the vaccine. This includes the following groups: people with a history of a severe allergic reaction to a vaccine people who have a condition that affects their immune system people who are getting radiation therapy or chemotherapy If you are in any of these groups, talk with your doctor before making a vaccination appointment. Meet Renaissance man Jeffrey Gurian, DDS. He’s worked with every standup comic you know. He’s also helping the pandemic’s front lines after a hospital stay from COVID-19 double pneumonia. How are you feeling? It’s seven weeks, and I’m just feeling back to myself. That’s how hard it hit me. Much worse than my heart attack—I had what’s known as a widow maker, had a stent put in—I was back on stage in five days. This feels like I was beaten over every part of my body. What happened? I started to have full body pains, every place you could image. Nausea, from morning to night, no matter what I took. At first, I wasn’t sure if I had fever or not because, foolishly, I had what must have been one of the first thermometers ever invented. Something my great-grandmother might have used in Russia. But at one point, my chills were so bad I couldn’t hold a glass. My doctor told me I should be in the hospital. Jeffrey Gurian, comedian/comedy writer, radio personality, author, producer, and journalist I called 911. Two amazing ambulance workers—one of them was so kind, he took my hand and said: “Don’t worry, you’re going to be OK.” I remember them apologizing to me for the bumpy ride. Next thing I know I’m in the ER. How was your experience at NYU Langone? I must emphasize that every single person there was so kind. The cleaning people, transport, nurses, doctors…everybody—everybody that came into the room had something to do with me getting better. They kept bringing me ice packs, as many as I asked for, to bring down my fever—when it finally hit 98.6, it brought tears to my eyes. I couldn’t believe it. That happened to me several times while I was there. I teared up a lot because the concern from the staff was overwhelming. There were nurses that held my hand that told me I’d be OK, and just to hang in there. They were working very hard to get me better. Why did you make your gift to support COVID-19 care and research? Because I believe in gratitude. Be grateful no matter what’s going on—those people are going out of their way, they’re so brave. To show up every day knowing that you could catch this, that’s an amazing thing. My gratitude is endless. Some people haven’t been feeling seriously ill. Why should they consider a contribution? You don’t need to have a disease to contribute. The same way that people come out to applaud and cheer—out the windows, on the rooftops—many of those people are probably not sick, they’re just grateful that there are people out there who are trying to help. I think there’s a feeling of camaraderie. Serve your community and the world in general. Is laughter the best medicine? I’m one of the few doctors who has a longstanding career in comedy. There’s no question that laughter releases endorphins. When I had my heart attack, and they were working to place the stent, I was still awake and felt what they were doing. On the operating table, I was joking to the surgeon: “I feel you in my heart, and not in a romantic way.” Even in that situation, I was looking for the humor. It’s about being positive. I try to open my mind to all positive things because it can’t diminish you to do so. Jeffrey Gurian is a comedian/comedy writer, radio personality, author, producer, and journalist. He also trained as a cosmetic dentist and served previously for 12 years as a clinical professor within the Oral/Medicine/Oro-Facial Pain Department of New York University’s College of Dentistry. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram @jeffreygurian Five-year-old receiving treatment for cancer blossoms thanks to Sala Institute. On a cold day in January 2020, five-year-old Zemirah arrived in New York City from her home in St. Vincent Island in the Caribbean. Zemi had been very recently diagnosed with neuroblastoma, a rare cancer that occurs in the sympathetic nervous system, a part of the nervous system that helps control the body’s response to stress. The sympathetic nervous system includes organs and structures such as the intestines, smooth muscle, heart, and glands. A close family friend urged her parents to bring Zemi to New York for treatment at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. Sadly, her parents couldn’t stay with her, and friends of the family stepped in to be with Zemi. The team at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital admitted Zemi to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and immediately began aggressive treatment of her cancer. She had brain surgery to remove her tumor and then started multiple rounds of high-dose chemotherapy. Her medical team, led by Elizabeth Raetz, MD, division director of hematology-oncology, could also see how scared Zemi was without her family, so they turned to the Child Life team, part of Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care, to support the young patient. Beth Kramsky, a certified child life therapist, answered the call and went to her bedside. “When Zemi was first hospitalized, she was withdrawn and anxious when meeting new staff and being in a new environment,” says Beth. “This is completely normal and one of the main reasons child life services are available—to counteract these feelings and help kids like Zemi feel more comfortable and supported.” Slowly Zemi engaged with the Sala team. She began to participate in activities most five-year-olds enjoy—like drawing, story time, and dancing to music. And her family away from home started to see the difference. “Zemi loves art so much! Art therapy definitely makes her feel more normal in the hospital, and engaging in any kind of art with her fingers—sand art, painting—are some of her favorite activities,” says Cherish Joseph, her cousin. Together the newly formed family did crafts and played games. “We also love to play bingo and hide and seek, and we have the best dance parties! We have a lot of fun together.” Zemi, a five-year-old cancer patient, enjoys doing arts and crafts with the Child Life team, part of Sala Institute. Zemi has had a long journey since she first came to Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. And she’s not done yet. She has undergone two stem cell transplants and is currently receiving immunotherapy. Despite these aggressive treatments, she still enjoys many of the activities and supportive care made possible by Sala. “Zemi is a tough little girl, but she always has a smile on her face,” says Dr. Raetz. Her family at home and in New York is grateful for the medical and supportive care Zemi has received at every step of the way. “She had an understandably challenging start, but she’s adjusted really well and has been responding to treatment like a champ,” reports Cherish. “Zemi is doing very well—we’re seeing a lot of good progress, thanks to the doctors, nurses, and Sala Institute team.” After creating and selling bracelets to help other kids, sisters tour Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital to see the impact of their latest venture. Sienna and Skye Alper are sisters from New York who inherited the family gene for crafting and selling jewelry. Hard workers and tough negotiators, Sienna and Skye make all their own business decisions–including the idea of donating their proceeds to Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, which they recently toured to see firsthand the impact of their latest venture. And, oh yes—Sienna is 6 1/2, Skye, 4. Skye and Sienna donated the proceeds from their bracelet sales to Hassenfeld Children's Hospital. The story of their gift began when the sisters spent a morning making bracelet after bracelet. Their mother, Randi Udell-Alper, who is vice president at London Jewelers, suggested that they sell the bracelets at the East Hampton store since the girls had made so many. Sienna asked her mom if there was a children’s hospital they could donate the proceeds to, and Randi suggested Hassenfeld; she posted photos of the bracelets on social media, helping to drive customers to the store to buy them. Determined to maximize their gift, Sienna told her buyers “this is for charity—no change” if they paid more cash than was needed for a bracelet. Altogether, they raised about $2,000 from selling the jewelry. Learning about teamwork has been an important component of the sisters’ partnership, and they have found pleasure in philanthropy. Sienna’s next project, she says, will be to raise money to help dogs; her grandmother currently relocates stray dogs to shelters so that they can find new homes. One night late at work, Tanya Torosian received an unusual request. She’s a pediatric clinical pharmacist who works the overnight shift at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, and that night she was given a medication order that exceeded the standard dose range for a child. Tanya contacted the provider who had requested the medicine and together they spoke about their shared concern with the physician specialist at 4:30 am. Tanya explained the patient’s other medications and together they agreed to maintain the current dosage. Tanya isn’t just a pharmacist. She’s also a safety coach, and the training she received for this special role equipped her with several important skills she used that night. “The tools I gained as a safety coach—to ask clarifying questions, stop and resolve, and don’t proceed in the face of uncertainty—helped me to resolve this issue,” Tanya says. Deanna Steffens, BS Pharm, MS Pharm, BCPPS (left), and Tanya Torosian, BS Pharm, MS Pharm, BCPPS (right), are not only sisters. They’re also pediatric clinical pharmacists and safety coaches at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. The Safety Coach Program supports hospital staff as they provide care to patients and families. The Safety Coach Program was created by the Children’s Hospitals’ Solutions for Patient Safety network, and in early 2020, it was tested and implemented by Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care, which leads patient safety and quality initiatives at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Safety coaches are on the front lines working in hospital units to ensure medical and surgical care is safer for patients. They have been trained to observe colleagues’ work behaviors and provide feedback and positive reinforcement to their peers about safe patient care practices. According to Fiona Levy, MD, executive director of Sala Institute, any faculty or staff member with an interest in and commitment to patient safety can become a coach. “We ask our unit leaders to think broadly when nominating someone to the program, and as a result, we have doctors, nurses, nurse practitioners, pharmacists, patient care technicians, and patient unit assistants,” says Dr. Levy. Through the training program for new coaches, the Sala team shares peer coaching techniques and provides advanced education to participants on safety behaviors and tools. “We develop our safety coaches as communicators, educators, role models, observers, storytellers, and ultimately change agents within their respective units” says Rebecca Kerns, senior project coordinator at Sala Institute. There are three core behavioral expectations explored throughout training that reinforce a shared responsibility to deliver safe patient care across the hospital. Together these three expectations demonstrate a deep commitment to patient and staff safety: Everyone makes a personal commitment to safety Everyone is accountable for clear and complete communication Everyone supports a questioning attitude Safety coaches reinforce these expectations and tools on their units. Not only do they coach their colleagues in real time, but they also model best practices. Deanna Steffens, who happens to be Tanya’s sister and also a pediatric clinical pharmacist and safety coach, says, “While we used safety practices before, now the Safety Coach Program has given additional training and strengthened our investigating, documenting, and sharing efforts.” Pradeep Mally, MD, division director of neonatology, has witnessed this deepened focus on safety firsthand in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). “Right now, it’s a culture change in the NICU,” says Dr. Mally. “During every shift there are at least two safety coaches who are identified in the NICU. Over the last couple of months, we have seen increased use of safety behaviors and tools, and every staff member feels supported in providing the safest possible care to newborns and the greatest comfort to families.” How to help make a child's vaccination experience positive. Pediatric patients are cruising in their new ride to the operating room. Visitors and staff in the Pediatric Surgery Center at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital–34th Street will need to watch out. Young patients can drive themselves from the pre-operative area to their procedures in a pint-size Mini Cooper. Before introducing this little buggy, the surgery team went to the Sala Family and Youth Advisory Councils for input on how to present the program in a sensitive and supportive manner to all patients and families. They listened to parents’ concerns, along with ideas from teens and families about how to make rides to the operating room as fun as possible, while developing alternatives for children who may not be able to drive for safety reasons. “Our intention is to improve the experience overall for children who are having a procedure,” says Jennifer Holohan, senior child life specialist in the pediatric surgery unit. “We know that surgery can be particularly stressful for children and parents alike, so we are happy to do anything we can to make it distracting and a bit more fun.” The new ride was brought to Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital thanks to The Paul Luisi Foundation, which raises funds for pediatric cancer research and for therapeutic tools for children’s hospitals. The foundation was created in honor of Paul Luisi, who was diagnosed with leukemia at an early age. Health Equity Institute makes sure that patient care, medical research, and medical professionals reflect underrepresented populations. Imagine a world that gives every single person an opportunity to live the healthiest life possible. This is the ultimate goal of health equity, which addresses barriers to good health, like limited access to nutritious food, a good education, or an affordable home. NYU Langone Health recently launched the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity to help advance health equity in communities and make sure that patient care, medical research, and medical professionals reflect underrepresented populations. The institute will mentor clinicians and medical trainees of color, contribute to national policy on health equity, educate medical students on this topic, and conduct research into health issues that affect minority populations more than white populations. Gbenga Ogedegbe, MD, MPH, new director of the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity, meets with Amanda Shallcross, MPH, ND The Institute for Excellence in Health Equity will be led by Gbenga Ogedegbe, MD, MPH. Dr. Ogedegbe is the Dr. Adolph and Margaret Berger Professor of Medicine and Population Health, director of the Center for Healthful Behavior Change, and director of the Division of Health & Behavior in the Department of Population Health. He is an internationally renowned physician-scientist and expert in health equity research with a focus on implementing evidence-based interventions targeted at cardiovascular risk reduction in minority populations. Four pillars to maximize impact The Institute for Excellence in Health Equity will be organized by four pillars—research, education, clinical care, and community—and will leverage existing academic talent in developing programs designed to accelerate the careers of the next generation of trainees and faculty. The research pillar will impact national policy on health equity by focusing on innovative, multi-centered, and cutting-edge peer-reviewed grants. The education pillar will advance undergraduate and graduate medical training by ensuring that students appreciate and integrate issues related to health equity. The institute will also serve to mentor trainees and faculty regarding professional milestones, thus encouraging and facilitating successful academic careers. The clinical care pillar will adapt NYU Langone Health delivery systems to achieve excellence in health equity outcomes, and the community pillar will advance health equity with a goal of fashioning scalable solutions to the health disparities in the community and across the nation. Sala specialists help patients and families process distressing feelings and learn new coping skills. Soccer is Jake’s favorite sport. The active eight-year-old loves playing on his local team alongside his friends. But when Jake started feeling sick for long periods of time, playing soccer—and many activities he enjoyed—grew harder. Tests done at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital revealed his diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. With this condition, the pancreas doesn’t make enough insulin, a hormone that helps blood sugar enter cells to be used as energy. The resulting high blood sugar can cause blurry vision, numb hands or feet, fatigue, weight loss, and other debilitating symptoms. The chronic, lifelong condition requires permanent adjustments for kids and families alike. Changes like strict diets, insulin injections, and regular finger pricks can cause discomfort and require parents’ round-the-clock help. “Type 1 diabetes is all-encompassing,” explains Becky Lois, PhD, a Sala Institute child and adolescent psychologist. “It creates a massive life shift for the whole family.” Jake quickly became concerned with what diabetes would mean for him. He wanted to know: Would he die early because of his diabetes? Could he still play soccer? “Naturally, many parents and providers want to reassure a child who’s received a new medical diagnosis that they’ll be OK,” Dr. Lois says. “Although Jake’s care team told him it was safe to play soccer, things weren’t sitting right with him. Deep down, he truly didn’t believe he was OK.” Jake’s anxiety played out on the field through panic attacks. That’s when his care team at the Robert I. Grossman, MD, and Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Pediatric Diabetes Center asked integrative behavioral health specialists from Sala Institute to help Jake and his family process his incredibly common yet distressing feelings about his diabetes diagnosis. Identifying Medical Trauma Medical trauma can result from a person’s difficult health experiences. It can stem from a single significant event, such as being rushed to the hospital for a medical emergency, or from many different experiences that accumulate over time, such as frequent hospital appointments or repeated blood draws. Vicarious medical trauma can also occur after witnessing or hearing about what happened to a loved one, friend, or peer. “Medical and vicarious trauma can come on immediately following a diagnosis, or surface only after a child or family member has had time to process their experiences,” explains Bethany Watson, PhD, a child and adolescent psychology fellow in Sala Institute. Signs of medical trauma are diverse and include panic attacks like those Jake had on the soccer field, acting out and testing limits in extreme ways, developmental regression, or certain statements, such as “I can’t sleep” or “I can’t stop thinking about what happened to me.” Compassionate Support Rooted in Research To help children and their families work through medical and vicarious trauma, Sala Institute’s team of psychologists, child life specialists, and social workers receive referrals from clinical teams or through a system of built-in behavioral health screenings across Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. “We’ve created universal touchpoints at the hospital and ambulatory care centers where we know it’s common to find individuals struggling with what we call little-T traumas that accumulate over time, and big-T traumas that can take the form of life-threatening or scary health events,” says Dr. Watson. From there, the road to recovery differs for every child and family member—but it always begins with education about the nature of trauma and helping the person to understand that every feeling is normal when it comes to processing stressful health experiences. “We’ve been helping Jake and his family understand that Jake’s fear is a very appropriate reaction to a diabetes diagnosis,” Dr. Lois explains. “When he expresses distress, his parents’ impulse is to save him from those feelings in the moment. In our sessions together, we’re giving space to listen to and validate Jake’s emotions.” The KiDS of NYU Integrative Behavioral Health team within Sala then helps the child and family make sense of their situation. They often teach new coping skills—for example, offering ways to navigate a panic attack—and help reframe their thinking. “Everything we do focuses on helping them take charge of their situation,” says Dr. Liaw, Director of Sala’s Child-Family Services and Resilience Programs. Sala Institute also provides diverse supports depending on what’s needed, such as nutritionists, creative arts therapists, physical therapists, and education for teachers in how best to support their students’ medical or behavioral needs. “A pillar of trauma-informed care is to teach kids to actively resist re-traumatization,” notes Dr. Watson. “We want to support kids to have affirming medical experiences, so in addition to helping them process past trauma, we proactively work to ensure their future medical experiences will be better.” Mentionable and Manageable Sala Institute’s specialists have helped Jake improve his outlook on life. He and his family are equipped with new coping skills, a deeper understanding of their feelings, and the courage to hold space for Jake’s difficult emotions. His family asked diabetes educators to meet with Jake’s soccer coach and teammates to share how they can help their son. “I always like to say, ‘If it’s mentionable, it’s manageable,’” shares Dr. Watson. “We can’t take the pain or the trauma away; we cannot erase what happened. But we can help them to carry their experiences forward with new skills, agency, and a sense of validation.” We also seek out children who are internalizing their trauma and are quiet about it—not acting out in ways that command attention and prompt intervention, but who are still suffering. Ron-Li Liaw, MD Director of Sala’s Child-Family Services and Resilience Programs Your gift will help children and families receive vital supportive services and resilience programs. Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care provides support services and resilience programs, family partnership programs, and safety and quality initiatives that advance the health and well-being of children and families at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Sala designs, promotes, and funds new programs to support children, families, and staff. All programs are created through a proven process that includes: Engaging with children and their families to understand their physical and emotional needs during times of complex or chronic illness Partnering with patients and families to create tools and strategies for addressing those needs Sharing the resources and tools at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital and beyond In collaboration with frontline healthcare providers, patients, and families, Sala Institute leads the following programs and services: Sala Child and Family Support Services and Resilience Programs, including child life, creative arts therapies, integrative behavioral health, integrative medicine, nutrition, pain management, palliative care, social work, and spiritual support Sala Family Partnership Programs, which influence patient experience through our Family Advisory Council, Youth Advisory Council, and Patient and Family Faculty Program Sala Patient Safety and Quality Programs The institute’s vision, research, and education fosters child- and family-centered care, an approach to care that brings together expert medical treatment with emotional care for a child and their family. At Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, we believe the best way to care for children is when patients, families, and healthcare professionals work together as a team. This teamwork creates care that is completely customized for the child. With your support, you’ll become part of a community helping to advance the practice of child- and family-centered care. Read the Sala 2022 Impact report to learn more about how your dedication has made a difference and will continue to brighten the lives of children and their families. My time working with the Sala Institute really changed me. I want to do for other kids and families what the people from the Sala Institute did for me. Sara Damour – Member, Sala Youth Advisory Council It’s amazing how much a simple thing like giving kids a toy to entertain them while they’re in the hospital can do for their health. It’s all about helping our patients just be kids again. Frances Clemente Child Life Specialist “I received remarkable, expert cardiac care at NYU Langone that dramatically transformed my quality of life. All delivered… Vanessa J I. Patient Support the Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care Early graduate of NYU Grossman School of Medicine answers a call to serve. In a valley of the Andes Mountains lies Cusco, Peru, where Wi-Fi is spotty and U.S. news limited. As Gabriela Ulloa, MD, conducted qualitative breast cancer research at a clinic there in early 2020, she would get occasional COVID-19 news in the form of phone calls from her mother, who was stateside. “Her updates went from, ‘I don’t think it’s going to end up coming to the U.S.’ to ‘It sounds widely infectious and is hitting China hard,’” Dr. Ulloa recalls. “Eventually, Mom’s calls transformed into panicked updates.” Dr. Gabriela Ulloa was one of 52 students at NYU Grossman School of Medicine who volunteered to put their plans on hold to serve as interns alongside their colleagues at NYU Langone Health. Dr. Ulloa and her husband, Jorge, who had joined her in Peru to explore the region and then visit his family in Bolivia, made it back to New York City just before the borders closed. Soon after, Dr. Ulloa vividly remembers receiving an email from the dean of her school, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, to ask if any students would consider cutting short their final year of med school to work on the front lines. “I was sitting on the couch crying for 40 minutes after I read the email,” Dr. Ulloa explains. “I felt that if you receive an email at 7 pm on a Sunday from your dean offering early graduation, the hospital really needs [you]. I felt the urgency of how much the med school was willing to go through for us because they needed help.” After talking it over with her husband, Dr. Ulloa signed on. “It was a no-brainer for us,” she says. “I saw my friends in their intern year struggling, not having enough [personnel to] allow them normal working hours and conditions. I really commend them. We always have to recognize that they were working very hard before we even got there, which prompted us to be able to volunteer to join them—and hopefully help them.” Dr. Ulloa was assigned to NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, where her first patient’s COVID-19 symptoms had improved considerably and she was being discharged. “She reminded me of my abuela , my great-grandmother,” she recalls. “The patient had a lot of co-morbidities—chronic heart failure, chronic kidney disease. In my very short career as a doctor, I had never discharged somebody who was so scared to go home. We spoke to each other in Spanish. She had a lot of questions about COVID-19 side effects. Would she get sick again? And it was hard to answer any of those questions at that time because so little was known. I just remember feeling lost and very scared for her as well.” Dr. Ulloa’s fluency in Spanish became invaluable, as the Tisch population grew heavily Hispanic during the pandemic surge, which was in contrast to Dr. Ulloa’s past experiences on the internal medicine floors there. “This felt like a completely different population than I was used to at Tisch,” Dr. Ulloa says. “Now, I was using my Spanish every single day. On a personal note, it was tough to see people who looked like my family, who had similar occupations to my family, be really sick and really scared at the same time. But I was happy to be able to speak with them, and hopefully calm their fears a little bit.” In addition to the parallels she felt with her patients, Dr. Ulloa found that her pediatric training served COVID-19 patients and families well. “In pediatrics, you’re constantly dealing with the patient’s family, which is why I love the field,” she says. “You’re used to explaining things in lay terms, and sometimes you need to articulate honestly that you don’t know what a certain symptom means in a way that is not upsetting to the family. I was able to apply these skills to COVID-19 care and help communicate with family members of geriatric patients especially—a population [for whom] it’s normally taken for granted that loved ones will be by the bedside.” The experience has also shed new light on a possible new area for Dr. Ulloa to pursue: pediatric intensive care. She says that working on the COVID-19 floors presented stressors similar to those that intensive care units (ICUs) often experience—and that she thrived in this challenging environment. “Even though it was really, really tough, I felt satisfied in that I was coping,” Dr. Ulloa says. “I could not only tolerate but do well in an ICU setting, where patients and families are typically quite upset. I also felt impassioned speaking to people in Spanish who didn’t understand their diagnoses or what we were doing with their care. Being able to connect like that with the Hispanic population through a difficult medical experience is rare, especially in an ICU setting.” Grateful for the first-rate education he received at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, Dr. Perelman has supported the school’s scholarship fund for 26 years. Seth Perelman, MD, credits NYU Grossman School of Medicine—where he earned his medical degree 26 years ago—for his successful career as an anesthesiologist. Dr. Perelman with his daughter, Allison, at the NYU Grossman School of Medicine White Coat Ceremony “The school really gave me the foundation and skills I needed to be a continual learner of medicine,” says Dr. Perelman. “It was a wonderful education. It was very challenging, but the curriculum was designed in a collegial way, which I think is a perfect way to learn.” Grateful for his time there, Dr. Perelman has contributed to the school’s scholarship fund every year since graduating in 1989, enabling other students to have the same type of experience he did. “I’ve heard stories about some of the current medical students who would not have been able to pursue a medical education, let alone one at NYU, without having tuition assistance. I know the dollars are being used wisely,” he says. He adds, “I’m sure physicians are not the school’s major financial donors. But I think that giving sends a message to the community, about how important institutions like NYU Langone and NYU Grossman School of Medicine are—to New York City and to the future of medicine in the U.S.” Dr. Perelman’s passion for his alma mater appears to be contagious. Following in his footsteps, his daughter, Allison, just began her first year at the school. What advice does Dr. Perelman have for Allison? “I told her to expect the most challenging, albeit enjoyable, educational experience. And that she’ll make the best friends that she’ll ever have in her academic career.” “It’s nice to see that some of the teachers I had are still there,” says Dr. Perelman, “and will be educating my daughter on aspects of medicine that were only touched on 26 years ago. Their longevity shows their love for teaching at NYU—and, I imagine, their good health!” Comprehensive support services from Sala Institute help a family through a five-month NICU stay. Lwam Rafel gave birth to her daughter, Sloane, in November 2019 at NYU Langone. Sloane was born extremely premature at just 25 weeks gestation following a complicated and unexpectedly high-risk pregnancy that required several hospital stays, multiple blood transfusions, and finally, a sudden, emergent delivery. Sloane was born at 25 weeks gestation and spent five months in the NICU at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Sloane and her family received comprehensive supportive services from Sala Institute. Baby Sloane spent five months in the NICU at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, mainly due to her under-developed lungs. She was intubated for three months to help her breath. Lwam and her husband, Jesse, brought Sloane home in April 2020 at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. Welcoming the newest member of the family should be a joyous time, but when a serious medical crisis accompanies the birth, the notion of what is “supposed to” transpire is anything but normal. Lwam credits the compassionate NICU team and Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care with helping her family throughout this time. The Sala multidisciplinary team included social workers, child life specialists, and an early childhood psychologist. Their expertise in conjunction with the medical team comprised a holistic approach to support the Rafel family. “Throughout our NICU stay, from social workers to Child Life to the psychologists, we have picked up tools and skills that we also give to our children and use beyond the hospital walls around dealing with challenges including resilience, kindness, and grace,” Lwam explains. Social workers from Sala facilitate communication between families and the medical team, ensuring mutual understanding of medical terminology and the family’s unique needs. Erin Collins, director of Pediatric Social Work, says, “Sala’s impact ensures we provide needed resources and support for families. Social workers meet the family where they are that day in that moment so we can provide a range of support based on their specific needs.” They also connect families to resources that support their transition to home or the next level of care within the medical system, all with the shared goal of alleviating stressors so they can focus on the care for their child. During Sloane’s stay in the NICU, Erin Villani, a pediatric social worker, noted that the Rafels were true partners, always asking questions and learning as much as they could about Sloane’s medical conditions. Lwam knew that skin-to-skin contact, or Kangaroo Care, has proven successful in patient outcomes, including stabilizing the baby’s heart rate and regulating breathing patterns. “Lwam advocated for being able to hold her daughter,” says Villani. “We came together as a team to assess how we could make this happen.” The team taught the Rafels how to work around the equipment so they could physically bond with Sloane. “Lwam was always respectful of our team and a wonderful partner in care. This new approach has enabled other parents to use Kangaroo Care with their infants in the NICU sooner than they might have in the past,” says Villani. Marking Milestones in Little Sister’s Progress For Lwam and Jesse, explaining to big brother Asher, then two years old, that his little sister wasn’t coming home immediately after she was born was daunting. Stacey Schneider, a child life specialist, recommended using a sticker chart so Asher could mark milestones in Sloane’s progress. “Child Life helped me find and create joy and connection when I felt like I was at a constant loss for it,” says Lwam. They also did hand printing projects to compare Asher’s size to his sister’s and provided a picture frame that he decorated so he could share her photo at school and keep it near his bed. “This gives the sibling some ‘proof’ that the baby is part of their family and ‘belongs’ to them as well,” says Schneider. Giving Back to Other Patients and Families As a result of her family’s experiences, Lwam joined the Sala Family Advisory Council. The council meets monthly and is comprised of 35 family members of patients at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Alongside the Sala Youth Advisory Council, the group provides input on new programming and initiatives for current and future children and families at the hospital. Liza Cooper, LMSW, is manager of Family and Youth Partnerships and Resources at Sala Institute and works directly with the council. “Lwam is a changemaker. There are some people who can tell a story about a challenging time in their life that makes you think; when Lwam tells her story, it changes the way you see things,” says Cooper. The Kangaroo Care initiative and the support from Social Work, Child Life and Early Childhood Psychology that families receive are all possible through Sala Institute, which is supported by generous donors. As a parent of a child in the NICU and a Sala Family Advisory Council member, Lwam is grateful to help other families gain confidence and empowerment in their roles as parents and healthcare advocates. She remarks, “Through what we went through, I know I’ve become a better parent. I can speak up for my kids, saying what will work for our family and what won’t, and I can partner better with the medical team to make sure we are working together each and every time to get our kids the best possible care.” Because of Sala, essential services and support are offered in a consistent, well-coordinated manner, in all areas where children receive care. I’ve been a child life specialist for about 13 years now. Child life specialists help children and families cope with the hospital setting, and we do that in various ways, from age-appropriate preparation for surgery or procedures to distraction during procedures to help children refocus their attention. Frances Clemente, MS, CCLS, Child Life Specialist Program Coordinator, Sala Institute We try to normalize their experience while they’re in the hospital or after they have a procedure, to get back to a baseline and help them to just be kids. Play is really important to children—it’s their form of communication. It’s how they express themselves. We just did a teddy bear clinic where the kids got to play doctor. When they take their teddy bears through the procedures of height and weight or getting a checkup, the kids feel more powerful and in control. I conduct trainings throughout Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital with physicians, nurses, medical assistants, and others, to support their skills in communicating and working effectively with children of all ages. I also work with parents, so that they can better help their children cope with procedures and fears they may have. I run a program called Connect the Dots. We provide education and resources to patients, families, and healthcare providers, to facilitate a consistent, developmentally appropriate experience, wherever care is given. I think what’s so beneficial to the design of our programs and to the delivery of care to our patients and families is the involvement of Sala Institute’s Family Advisory Council, Youth Advisory Council, and family advisers. I think getting their opinions on all the projects that we’re working on, and getting their input from the very beginning, is really essential. Two groups raise money to give gift cards to young patients in Long Island. This past holiday season, enthusiastic teens from Teen Project and Charlie’s Champions Foundation joined together to raise $23,000 for teenage patients receiving care at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and NYU Langone Cancer Center for Kids–Mineola. Teen Project, which first began in 2014, was founded by teens Steven and Matthew Spirakis, who wanted to empower local teens to give back. The Spirakis brothers have long volunteered and supported the hospital’s annual Swim-a-thon, a Child Life Program fundraiser founded by their pediatrician, Dr. Ron Marino. We learned the hospital often receives toy donations for young patients, but seldom receives appropriate gifts for teen patients. We decided to help by collecting gift cards teens our age preferred to receive and donating them to the hospital. —Spirakis Delaney Zander, Luke Schmitt, T. J. Schmitt, Matthew Spirakis, and Steven Spirakis present a $23,000 check to NYU Langone Health’s Heather Dall’Aste and Nicole Almeida from the online fundraiser by Teen Project and Charlie’s Champions Foundation. The annual fundraiser has raised $80,000 in donations since its inception seven years ago. The success of the campaign is largely due to the early expansion of the Holiday Project. In 2017, the Spirakis brothers partnered with T.J. and Luke Schmitt of Garden City–Charlie’s Champions Foundation, a prominent supporter of the Cancer Center for Kids (CCFK), which provides care to pediatric patients battling cancer and complex blood disorders. The foundation was established by the Schmitt family in honor of Charlie Schmitt, a cancer survivor who was treated at CCFK. “We have been raising money and awareness for Charlie’s Champions Foundation since we were both in middle school and because of what we experienced firsthand with one of our cousins being treated at CCFK. The gift cards were a great idea to show the teenagers that we understood them as peers. Gift cards allow them to shop online just like we enjoy doing,” says T. J. Schmitt. successful fundraiser took place on NYU Langone’s Giving website, which is available to all people or groups looking for a virtual way to support any area of the hospital. In the time of COVID-19, the distance most people have in mind is six feet. But long-distance runner Alex Eisen of Mineola, New York, had his eyes set on a much longer length: 30 miles. To ring in his 30th birthday, Alex knew he wanted to support the frontline clinicians, nurses, and staff of NYU Langone Health and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island.  As a thank you for tireless efforts of the healthcare workers, he would set up an online campaign around the most grueling distance he had ever attempted—30 miles around Mineola and neighboring Port Washington, where he teaches fourth grade. He would make the journey on his birthday. When the pandemic hit, he immediately knew he wanted to help, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island was top of mind. NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island had helped Alex in the past—living with asthma, he needed emergency services at points throughout his life. “It’s near and dear to my heart.” Early on April 21, he set out even as the forecast called for rain (and, oh, it rained; though he narrowly beat the afternoon tornado warnings for Nassau County.). And, with a little help from his in-house camera crew—brother behind the camera, mother behind the wheel—he livestreamed the entire event on Facebook, raising thousands of dollars over the course of the run to help battle the coronavirus. “I’ve been trying to get my friends to join me [on a race]. One of them said he’d do the last .2 if I could handle the first 26” (typical marathons are 26.2 miles). But on the 30-mile run, Alex wasn’t alone; over 150 donors cheered him on with contributions of all sizes. As of this writing, his campaign has raised over $12,000. Additionally, his story was picked up by local news—even further extending his reach. Watch coverage from ABC7 here Post-run, life didn’t take long to get back to (quarantine) normal. Sore and hobbling at 8 am the following day, he returned to his students online: “I basically told them, ‘If I’m going to be there, I expect you to, too.’” And that’s how you teach dedication. Mind–Body Patient Bedside Program The Mind–Body Patient Bedside Program is a unique, evidenced-based, holistic program that has been shown to reduce pain and , lessen the effect of stress on the body, and improve sleep. These healing sessions are performed by professional, licensed healthcare providers and offered free of charge through NYU Langone’s For information about services at , please talk with your nurse or doctor to get a referral or contact our program directly at 212-263-5767 . Integrative health services may include the following therapies. Guided Imagery Guided imagery teaches you how to use all five senses and your imagination to visualize a more relaxed and peaceful state of being. This technique can be used during procedures, treatments, and surgery to help ease anxiety. Hypnosis Hypnosis triggers a deeply relaxed and highly focused state of concentration and attention that helps people cope with the physical and emotional components of pain. Hypnosis has also been shown to ease anxiety before medical procedures and alleviate and symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome , as well as aid in tobacco cessation . We can also teach you methods of self-hypnosis. The ‘M’ Technique The ‘M’ Technique® is a gentle method of structured touch that works on skin receptors to promote relaxation and restful sleep. The ‘M’ Technique® is suitable for the very young, older adults, and critically ill or dying patients. Because the technique is completely choreographed, it is easily taught to caregivers to use with their loved ones. Mindfulness Meditation Mindfulness meditation uses the breath to focus your mind, reduce stress, and control emotions. You learn to become aware of your thoughts and feelings, reducing your reactions to them and heling you become less judgmental. This has been found to assist physical and emotional healing. Meditation is used for a variety of conditions such as anxiety, pain, stress, insomnia, and physical and emotional symptoms that accompany chronic illnesses such as and cancer. Progressive Muscle Relaxation Progressive muscle relaxation is achieved through either a muscle tightening and relaxation exercise, or with focused awareness on each part of the body. Relaxation techniques have been found to help ease a variety of conditions including insomnia, anxiety, and headaches, as well as the symptoms associated with fibromyalgia , irritable bowel syndrome, and heart disease. Reiki Reiki is an ancient, gentle, noninvasive, hands-on technique that facilitates deep relaxation. The practitioner places her or his hands on or close to your body in a series of positions. The goal is to release the flow of energy through your body. Practitioners believe this promotes the body’s ability to heal itself, ease pain, lessen muscle tension, and relieve insomnia. Relaxation Breathing Gentle, focused breathing teaches you to use your breath to relax your body and mind. This reduces the harmful effects of stress. Therapeutic Touch is an evidenced-based energy therapy that is used to promote balance and wellbeing. Direct touch is not necessary for the treatment but may be used. Guided Meditation & Relaxation Outpatient Integrative Health Services Prepare for Surgery, Heal Faster Program Integrative Medicine Services for Children Our Integrative Health & Health Promotion Staff Palliative Care & Supportive Care Through NYU Langone’s , we offer holistic treatments and consultations aimed at helping you cope with illness, improve your quality of life, manage symptoms related to medical conditions, and help you take control of your health. All treatments are available to the public and delivered by licensed healthcare professionals with advanced training in integrative health. Acupuncture Acupuncture is a form of traditional Chinese medicine during which a practitioner uses hair-thin needles to stimulate specific points on the body. This practice is believed to promote the body’s own healing system and restore its proper function. Acupuncture is used to help reduce stress, , and acute and chronic pain, such as neck , hip, and shoulder pain. We specialize in trigger point acupuncture, which releases localized muscle tightness in your area of pain. For appointment and availability, please call mindbody@nyulangone.org Cost : Initial 90-minute visit, $160; follow-up 60-minute visits, $120. Please check with your health insurance provider to see if acupuncture services are a covered expense. Pelvic pain can be a symptom of , which occurs when tissuethat lines a woman’s uterus during the menstrual cycle grows outside of the uterus.Often women or their healthcare providers may mistake this pain for the expecteddiscomfort of menstruation. But once diagnosed, endometriosis is treatable. Doctors at NYU Langone’s are experts in diagnosingthis condition and developing the treatment that best fits your lifestyle and goals. Screening for Endometriosis Symptoms Please complete the questionnaire below to learn more about common endometriosis symptoms.You can also call us at if you prefer to discuss your symptoms over the phone. During your period, do you experience pelvic, abdominal, or lower back pain that limits your activities or requires medication? Always Sometimes Never In between periods, do you experience pelvic, abdominal, or lower back pain that limits your activities or requires medication? Is sexual intercourse painful? Does pain ever cause you to avoid intercourse? Are bowel movements painful before or during your period? If you answered to any of the above questions,you are experiencing some of the common symptoms of endometriosis. Please provideyour contact information below if you would like a member of our team to contactyou about scheduling an appointment. to all questions, you may still provide your contact information if you would liketo discuss a health concern with one of our doctors. Your Contact Information Full Name Age Email Phone Number Preferred Method of Contact Submit Welcome NYU Grossman School of Medicine Alumni Thank you to everyone who joined us on October 7 and 8 to celebrate the extraordinary alumni of NYU Grossman School of Medicine at the 2022 Alumni Reunion, Autumn in New York It was a truly momentous occasion as, for the first time in three years, we gathered together to honor our classes ending in 0s and 5s, 1s and 6s, 2s and 7s and connect with colleagues, classmates, and friends to remember and commemorate our alma mater. View photos from Alumni Reunion Weekend and learn about this year’s presenters and awardees here. How Your Support Makes a Difference Reunion may be over, but it’s not too late to commemorate your time at the medical school by making a gift. Together, we can create a brighter future in healthcare. Your gift will support the next generation of leaders in medicine. With your help, we can continue our decades-long tradition of training exceptional doctors who will go on to conduct breakthrough research and bring not only world-class medicine but the utmost compassion to our communities. This is the power of your investment. This is your legacy. If you have any questions about making an offline gift, a gift to your specific class fund, or a legacy gift to commemorate your time at the medical school, please contact us at or 212-404-3510. Unable to attend? Give to the 2022 Alumni Reunion Support NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine A Round of Support for NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine On June 6, we hit the fairways for the 2022 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Golf Classic. Returning after a two-year hiatus, players enjoyed a great day on our new course, Glen Oaks Club in Old Westbury. The weather was perfect for our golfers and the after-event reception on the club’s patio. This year’s event benefits the Long Island School of Medicine (LISOM), New York State’s first medical school focused on primary care. Donations will help LISOM train primary care physicians by providing full-tuition scholarships to all students. Thank you to our title sponsor, Heidell, Pittoni, Murphy & Bach, LLP, and event chair John P. McNaboe, Esq. As part of the NYU Langone Giving community, your support is invaluable. We look forward to seeing you for another fantastic day of golf and comradery in June 2023. Were you unable to attend? Give to NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s 2022 Golf Classic Sala leads efforts to enhance support for children with chronic illnesses. A child’s experience with diabetes, cystic fibrosis, or other chronic condition often affects the entire family. Each person can develop stress, depression, or anxiety, and have difficulty coping with the disease’s challenges. And yet, to many parents, pediatricians haven’t adequately addressed these widespread mental health needs. Parent advocates from across the United States asked the American Board of Pediatrics (ABP) to prioritize the emotional and behavioral health of chronically ill children and their families. The ABP agreed. It launched the Roadmap Project to develop behavioral health assessment resources and techniques for all American pediatricians who care for kids with chronic illness. Collaborate to Innovate In 2019, the ABP created a collaborative of nine top children’s hospitals to work on the Roadmap Project, including Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital with leadership from Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care, which is renowned for helping chronically ill children and their families cope with their emotions and build resilience. “The Roadmap Project is opening up a national conversation about how we can systematically address these gaps in care delivery,” explains Becky Lois, PhD, co-director of KiDS of NYU Integrated Behavioral Health program, part of Sala Institute. “There were already a lot of resources about checking in on the emotional health and well-being of specific patient populations, such as those with cystic fibrosis. The Roadmap initiative expands that work and says, ‘All of us in pediatrics need to take this on and address emotional health for every patient at every visit.’” Dr. Mary Pat Gallagher To help create the Roadmap, each of the nine hospital teams—made up of practitioners and family partners—tested the Roadmap’s proposed behavioral health approaches within a specific area of their institution. The Robert I. Grossman, MD, and Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Pediatric Diabetes Center, led by Mary Pat Gallagher, MD, was selected as Hassenfeld’s pilot site. “The Roadmap Project really dovetails with what we already do at the center with support from Sala, which is incorporating emotional and behavioral health in our daily work with children and families, in ways that families help design,’’ Dr. Gallagher explains. “The idea was that each hospital could learn from what the others did. Our goal was to test the effectiveness of techniques that could apply broadly across chronic illnesses—like depression screening or proactive education about the importance of emotional health—and then train all staff, from dietitians to nurses, in these techniques.” Small Changes Lead to Big Improvements For its part in the Roadmap Project, the Pediatric Diabetes Center created a new screening process for depression and anxiety. To build it out effectively, Dr. Gallagher says her team focused on “small tests of change” for the screening, meaning they would plan, implement, study, and then re-implement pieces of the process in real time. This allowed for continual improvement—a hallmark of the Roadmap Project. The first step in the new screening process asks a patient or family member four short questions. A high score suggests the likelihood of emotional distress and prompts a larger screening. The Pediatric Diabetes Center began its test by screening one family and asking for their feedback. As the screening process evolved, Dr. Gallagher decided that even if someone scored zero (indicating no anxiety or depression), she would still talk to them about emotional and behavioral health, thank them for anything they shared, and provide a handout with more resources. “We’re still iterating,” Dr. Gallagher notes of the center’s new, customizable screening process for anxiety and depression, “but the system is already well enough developed that we are able to offer it to all of our patients in the center. It’s already making a difference.” The Roadmap Launches Nationally Efforts like these across all nine participating children’s hospitals to test small changes in assessing children’s behavioral health yielded valuable results. The ABP and hospital collaborators used their findings to produce a suite of practical online educational resources that are now being adopted nationwide by pediatricians and other practitioners who work with chronically ill children and their families. The Roadmap website also offers resources to support families who identify as Black. “Roadmap Project participation by parents identifying as minorities helped inform our understanding of their unique experiences,” Dr. Lois notes. “They reinforced that when we think about how patients and their families come to us, and what their experiences have been with medical teams and hospital settings, we have a lot to do to create safe spaces for patients and families, in a culturally sensitive way.” Dr. Lois believes the Roadmap’s magic lies in its customizable approach to behavioral and emotional health assessments. She says, “We now have some of the tools we need as health care professionals to normalize mental health check-ins with our patients and families, in all their forms of diversity.” A second-year medical student in virtual reality (VR) goggles immerses himself in wraparound high-resolution graphics that make him feel as though he is standing inside a larger-than-life healthy lung. His classmates follow what he’s doing on a computer monitor. With the click of a controller, he gives the lung chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). A collective gasp rises in the room, as students can see in vivid, almost living, detail the disease’s effects on the lung. “Swiss cheese,” the student murmurs. “Don’t smoke,” another says. “Virtual reality is used by doctors to plan surgeries at NYU Langone Health,” says Marc Triola ’98, Res. ’02, associate dean for educational informatics and founding director of the Institute for Innovations in Medical Education (IIME). “It’s used by researchers to visualize data and enables us to look inside the human body in ways that used to be physically impossible. We introduce our students to it early in their education because it will be such a big part of their world view.” Innovations in Technology and Information Systems Have Revolutionized Healthcare Delivery and Biomedical Research But U.S. medical schools, says Dr. Triola, have typically lagged behind in using these innovations to augment the essential—and unwavering—patient learning. NYU Grossman School of Medicine is leading the way forward through the work of the IIME, which applies technology and the science of education and informatics to transform teaching, learning, evaluation, and assessment. With 28 full-time staff and more than 30 affiliate faculty, the IIME is one of the largest medical education innovation groups in the country and represents a multidisciplinary team of faculty educators, education scientists, informaticians (data experts), and multimedia developers. In programs and initiatives across undergraduate and graduate medical education, and in close conjunction with the health system, the IIME aims to close the gap between how doctors practice medicine and how medical students and trainees learn in the classroom and clinical settings. The institute curates and develops education technology for the school, including using augmented and virtual reality to immerse students in highly experiential learning, apps such as in-the-moment evaluation tools and clinical resources for students and educators, and multimedia e-learning modules that supplement and enrich in-class learning. Dr. Marc M. Triola We’re leveraging all this data that we collect about our learners, about the curriculum, and about the healthcare system to inform our educational programs. It’s moved us away from education driven by anecdotes to education driven by an epidemiologic approach. “It’s never technology for technology’s sake,” says Crystal Mainiero, MPA, IIME’s executive director. “Technology in medical education is meant to support active, integrated, personalized learning. It’s always an enabler to [help students] do some really amazing things.” The institute, which grew out of the Division of Educational Informatics, also avidly collects and leverages a wide range of data and evidence to inform and improve the education experience, making use of the rich data already available across the health system. “We are a science-driven medical center. Gaining insight from data is a theme that has transformed our clinical mission and our research mission. Now we’re working to make sure it’s transforming our education mission,” says Dr. Triola, emphasizing that data does not replace human decision making but rather positions decision making to be more successful because it is more informed. New Insights Pinpoint New Opportunities Using data from a wide set of sources—including the learning management system, evaluation and assessment tools, simulation checklists, student information system, and electronic medical record, EPIC—IIME built an education data warehouse that enables educators to visualize and act nimbly on education-related data. “We’re leveraging all this data that we collect about our learners, about the curriculum, and about the healthcare system to inform our educational programs,” says Dr. Triola. “It makes perfect sense, but it’s not an approach that’s used by most medical schools.” The IIME recently received an award from the Association of American Medical Colleges’ Group on Information Resources for making “significant contributions to academic medicine information technology.” The data warehouse, combined with enterprise analytics, gives educators a deeper understanding—in real time—of what students are learning, how they are performing, what they will need in future practice, and what changes can be made today to better prepare them for that future. The same can be said for faculty members, who gain actionable insights, again in real time, into their performance and the effectiveness of their teaching and evaluating. “With the infrastructure and ability to collect, analyze, and summarize all of this data, it gives us the ability to create a continuous quality improvement approach to medical education,” says Dr. Triola. “It’s moved us away from education driven by anecdotes to education driven by an epidemiologic approach.” NYU Grossman School of Medicine will use such a data-driven approach—combined, importantly, with human input—to inform and improve the transition from undergraduate to graduate medical education (UME/GME). The school collects a vast array of data on its undergraduate medical students—on their strengths and weaknesses, educational goals and trajectory, assessments and competencies—but little of that information makes it across the UME/GME divide. Now, with a $1.8 million grant from the American Medical Association’s (AMA’s) Reimagining Residency initiative, five residency programs will have access to that data right after a student matches to that program. Each student will connect with a residency coach, and, together with the resident’s mentor from NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s undergraduate coaching/advising Violet Society Program, they will use the data at hand to create a road map ensuring curricular continuity and relevance, and, ultimately, enhancing readiness for practice. NYU Langone is uniquely positioned to develop and benefit from the five-year project, Transition to Residency Advantage, Dr. Triola notes, because a higher-than-average percentage of the graduates continue on through residency: 40 percent, compared with a national average of 24 percent. Active Learning through Technology Back in the classroom, the next student who wears the VR goggles becomes immersed in her selected organ, the pancreas. She first rotates a healthy 3D pancreas 360 degrees, then elects to view the pancreas with diabetes—to see the devastating effects of the chronic illness on the organ. The class is part of an emergency medicine clerkship designed to give students firsthand experience with the specialty. Elsewhere in the conference room, fellow second-year students in VR goggles are immersed in a simulation to save a baby having a seizure. The immersive nature of the VR technology enables each student to check the baby’s vitals, clear the airway, give oxygen, and select lifesaving IV medications. The simulation increases in difficulty by medically complicating the situation and by introducing the baby’s virtual mother and a series of cascading distractions. “The simulation allows students to put their knowledge and skills into practice and make ‘real-life’ decisions without compromising a real patient’s safety,” says Carol DerSarkissian, MD, Res. ’02, clinical assistant professor in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Emergency Medicine. She developed the VR segment of the class with Gregory Dorsainville, MPS, IIME’s senior multimedia developer, after she took the Virtual Reality in Medical Education certification course he teaches for faculty. “This is active, experiential learning, as opposed to passive learning, and students will remember more because they are learning from experience,” says Dr. DerSarkissian. “That gives them a more solid memory and a deeper understanding of that clinical situation and of that disease state.” Novel technologies are driving profound advances in surgeries, research, and imaging. NYU Grossman School of Medicine is infusing technology into the curriculum both to ensure that students have a fluency with the tools of their future and to capitalize on what these technologies enable students to learn and do. This kind of enriched learning brings medical students deep inside a human body to experience systems, organs, and structures, as well as various states of disease and wellness, up close and remarkably intact. “The overall concept is that it’s difficult to visualize in one’s mind what these structures actually look like, where they’re positioned, and what they’re doing. Immersive 3D tech does that,” notes Dorsainville, who is the developer behind many of the learning experiences that integrate existing and emerging technologies at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. He narrates the immersive learning that is possible in a VR session: “Look at the heart. You can see different layers, the circulation, and the process of beating. You can see the nerves firing across all the muscles, which you can’t do with a cadaver. You can play with the values to manipulate how fast the heart is beating. There, that’s what it looks and sounds like at 75 beats per minute. Now speed it up, or slow it down.” Starting this fall, students will be using virtual and augmented reality, 3D cinematic renderings of CT and MRI scans, and a new collection of plastinations, which are human cadavers preserved with plastic resins. In its leadership role as an innovator in medical education, the school continues to seek out the optimal way to combine technology and patient-based learning to best prepare the next generation of physicians and scientists. “Conventional 2D clinical imaging—such as CT, MRI, and radiography—will be infused into the anatomy curriculum, so the students learn living human anatomy in the way they will be seeing it in the future,” explains Kira Melamud ’10, assistant professor of radiology. “Strategic use of advanced 3D rendering techniques will further enhance the students’ understanding of critical spatial relationships.” New technologies that are being developed and used across the school and health system—including the point-of-care ultrasound—are only as good as the problems they solve and the benefits they deliver to people. “Technology is the enabler, not the driver, of the human changes that we want to realize in our education and clinical systems,” says Dr. Triola. “We’re not casting around for something to do with iPhones because we have them. Rather, because we know we have to have certain conversations at the bedside, we might investigate how an iPhone could help.” Ruth M. Crowe ’86, PhD (GSAS ’86), associate professor of medicine and director of integrated clinical skills, has collaborated with IIME to develop apps that provide standardized, real-time feedback for OSCEs (Objective Structured Clinical Examinations) as well as for workplace-based assessments, such as oral presentations and patient handovers. “Technologic innovations such as the I-PASS app enable standardized assessments that can be measured and followed longitudinally,” says Dr. Crowe. “We’re gamifying around it: we can motivate learners to collect authentic clinical performance assessments in their electronic portfolio data with the realization that it can enhance their grades. This benefit drives behavior change in the form of practice and feedback, and leads to better patient outcomes.” She emphasizes the importance of collaboration with clinical teaching faculty, ensuring that the assessment tasks and technology support their teaching goals, enhance communication with learners, and do not require undue time or attention from learners or instructors. “The major lift is not in creating the tool itself,” she says. The hard part lies in getting buy-in for using the tool. IIME developed NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Educator Community to inspire and support faculty development in education innovations, including how to use data, novel technology, and e-learning modules to meet teaching and learning demands. In addition to holding regular workshops and providing resources to help faculty members remain current on the latest tools and techniques, the Educator Community holds an annual Medical Education Innovations and Scholarship Day to honor faculty who embrace technology and take it to the next level. Dr. Crowe’s goal is to support instructors and learners through change. “As we move toward competency-based medical education, these innovations can help sustain a major culture shift,” she says. Written by Deborah Schupack A day to connect and learn Register Join us for a one-day conference designed for patients, their families, and caregivers. World-renowned doctors, researchers, and panelists will present useful and pioneering information on the treatment and management of epilepsy and seizures. 8:30 am: Registration and Refreshments 9:10 am: Morning Keynotes 9:10 am – 9:55 am: New Drugs, Deliveries, and Biologics for Epilepsy: The Expanding Pipeline Jacqueline French, MD 9:55 am – 10:40 am: Memory and Epilepsy Jennifer Gelinas, MD, PhD Columbia University 10:50 am: Session A (Choose 1) Epilepsy and Employment Panel Anli Liu, MD Genetic Therapy Chengzu Long, PhD Dana Price, MD Parent Panel Peggy Guinnessey, MPH, CTRS 11:40 am: Lunch and Information Table Displays 12:25 pm: Session B (Choose 1) Rare Genetic Disorders: From Organizing to Curing Orrin Devinsky, MD Colleen Olson (DHPS Foundation) Lisa Manaster (CACNA1A Foundation) Nicole Johnson (FOXG1 Research Foundation) Michael Jasulavic (LouLou Foundation-CDKL5) Adults with Epilepsy: Navigating Family and Work Life Can Seizures Be Prevented? Josiane LaJoie, MD 1:20 pm: Session C (Choose 1) Dietary Therapies Parmpreet Dhillon, MD Maria Kaufer, RDN Common Misunderstandings in Epilepsy Care Cognitive Functioning in Children with Jennifer Rosenberg, PhD 2:15 pm: Afternoon Keynote The Future of Epilepsy Care: Opportunities and Challenges Supporting NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Driving the Future of Medicine On June 5, 2023, our community rallied together to support full-tuition scholarships for the outstanding students of —the first medical school in the state focused on training primary care physicians. Together, we created opportunities for aspiring doctors to pursue their dreams and achieve a world-class education. Thank you to all who attended the event! View photos from the 2023 NYU Langone Long Island Golf Classic Chair: Shepard T. Poole Honorary Co-Chairs: Dean Gladys Ayala, MD and Joseph Greco, MD Committee: Dirk Anderson Brian P. Kerley, Esq. Glenn Lostritto Nicholas J. Rosato, Jr. Charles M. Strain, Esq. Clubhouse Sponsors: The Hallen Construction Co, Inc. Island Outreach Foundation – Michele and Dave Knapp Rafferty Holdings Steel Equities Fairway Sponsors: Kerley, Walsh, Matera & Cinquemani P.C. Lizardos Engineering Associates, PC Presidio-Cisco Support the NYU Long Island School of Medicine A Fabulous Evening in Honor of the GI Fellowship Class of 2022 Dr. Mark Pochapin & The Division of Gastroenterology & Hepatology Cordially thank you for celebrating The NYU Division of Gastroenterology & Hepatology Fellowship Class of 2022. Honorees: Dr. Yongyan Cui, Dr. Saamia Faruqui, Dr. Valerie Gausman, Dr. Sarah Lopatin, Dr. Michael O’Donnell and Dr. Lindsey Sattler Give to Gastroenterology Fellowship Graduation 2022 FACES and the NYU Langone Comprehensive Epilepsy Center are enormously grateful for the overwhelming support of the FACES Gala 2023.  The evening was a celebration of the resilience and spirit of the FACES community – people with epilepsy, their families and friends, volunteers, physicians and scientists. We owe the success of this year’s gala to all of those who lent their support by attending, giving a contribution, taking a digital journal ad, donating or purchasing auction items, and volunteering. Over 600 people attended the event, and FACES raised over $5 million dollars! These funds will directly benefit a wide scope of pioneering research, provide unparalleled patient care, and support ancillary programs that help lessen the burden of epilepsy for patients and their families, including the Parent Network, the FACES Apartments, the Dr. Blanca Vazquez Summer Camp Scholarship, and the FACES College Scholarship. It also allows us to offer cost-free events such as Game Day, our Peace of Mind Lecture series, and the annual Epilepsy Conference. Thanks go out to the entire FACES community and all they do to move our mission forward. Celebrating Milestone Giving to Transform Health A Night Honoring Exceptional Generosity and Impact—in Brooklyn and Beyond Leaders and friends of NYU Langone Health reunited on Wednesday, November 1, for the 2023 Violet Ball, celebrating a remarkable $2 billion raised since the previous Violet Ball in November 2019—and nearly $200 million through the event itself. Nearly half of these funds were unrestricted, allowing the health system the flexibility to allocate resources where they are needed most—and reflecting the profound trust our supporters have in our institution and its ability to put philanthropic dollars to the best possible use. The event honored Jackie and Mike Bezos and the entire Bezos family, longtime visionary partners to NYU Langone. The Bezos family has provided consummate and strategic support over several decades for key initiatives to remove barriers to health and wellbeing and transform care for children, families, and entire communities. “What first brought Jackie and Mike to our doors was a powerful alignment with our central promise: to deliver one standard of outstanding care for everyone,” said Dean and CEO Robert I. Grossman, MD. “At the height of Covid and a very low point for our city and especially its poorest neighborhoods, they linked arms with us to effect lasting change.” With their most recent gift of $166 million in 2021, the Bezos family launched the Beyond Bridges initiative: a model for community-wide health improvement beginning in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, designed to scale to health systems across the nation. Through a network of clinical and community-based efforts built on the strengths of NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and some of Brooklyn’s most successful and engaged community-based organizations, Beyond Bridges seeks to bridge health disparities and address social determinants of health by more deeply embedding the health system in the communities that it serves. “Jackie and Mike care only about their impact,” said Ken Langone. “I have never met two people who want less of the spotlight on them. They are far too focused on shining light on others.” A video highlighted the unparalleled impact and promise of the Beyond Bridges initiative. The Bezos family’s story is an illuminating case study in the power of philanthropy to unite people, programs, and infrastructure to catalyze progress and transform health. Since NYU Langone merged with Lutheran Medical Center in 2016 to create NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, the hospital has ascended to become one of the best and safest in the country, with an even lower mortality rate than NYU Langone’s flagship Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. Jackie and Mike took these efforts a step further, recognizing even greater potential in Brooklyn and an opportunity to realize true system- and community-wide change. “We set out to establish a new healthcare model that we hope will be replicated in communities across the country,” said Mike Bezos. “There is an enormous amount of work to be done, and NYU Langone Health is all in and paving the way.” NYU Langone supporters’ sweeping generosity in the past four years enabled NYU Langone not only to emerge resilient in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, but also to climb higher, driving significant progress across its mission in patient care, research, and medical education. Today, the health system leads nationwide in quality and safety, including recognition as the top comprehensive academic medical center and ambulatory system for quality and safety by Vizient, Inc., with the highest grades across the board from The Leapfrog Group; both Vizient and Leapfrog are independent organizations who evaluate us using a wide range of performance metrics from across our enterprise. NYU Langone also continues to be recognized for its specialty care, with 10 specialties ranked in the top 10 nationally by A second video looked toward the future of NYU Langone Health. The Violet Ball was hosted once again at the iconic Metropolitan Museum of Art. Event proceeds will support the institution’s research endowment, sustaining long-term research growth and further propelling innovation in medicine. See how far we’ve come 212.404.3575 thevioletball@nyulangone.org Conditions We Treat at the Fetal Diagnosis & Treatment Program There are many conditions that can affect your baby before birth, and the medical team at NYU Langone’s has the skill and experience to provide the expert care you are looking for. The conditions we treat include the following. Twin Pregnancies twin–twin transfusion syndrome twin anemia–polycythemia sequence twin reversed arterial perfusion sequence intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) or demise of one twin mono-amniotic twins conjoined twins Respiratory Conditions congenital airway abnormalities , including congenital high airway obstruction syndrome congenital diaphragmatic hernia congenital pulmonary airway malformation (CPAM/CCAM) bronchopulmonary sequestration Cardiovascular Disorders heterotaxy syndrome arrhythmias intracardiac tumors Abdominal Wall Disorders gastroschisis omphalocele ectopia cordis bladder or cloacal exstrophy Intestinal Conditions dilated or echogenic bowel intestinal atresia, including duodenal atresia and jejunoileal atresia intra-abdominal calcifications anorectal malformations, including imperforate anus enteric duplication cyst other intra-abdominal cysts, including choledochal and ovarian Genitourinary Tract Disorders and Kidney Disease congenital kidney and urinary tract problems , including urinary tract dilation, multicystic dysplastic kidney, renal agenesis, obstructive uropathies. persistent cloaca, and ambiguous genitalia medical renal disease, including , cystic renal dysplasia, and polycystic kidney disease renal masses, including mesoblastic nephroma, neuroblastoma Wilms tumor Musculoskeletal Conditions clubfoot congenital hand deformities , including polydactyly, syndactyly, ectrodactyly, and clinodactyly achondroplasia and other skeletal dysplasias amniotic band syndrome Craniofacial and Neck Conditions cleft lip and cleft palate macroglossia or micrognathia lymphatic malformations (cystic hygroma) Nervous System Conditions open neural tube defect, including myelomeningocele closed neural tube defects ventriculomegaly and hydrocephalus agenesis of the corpus callosum holoprosencephaly microcephaly and macrocephaly Dandy Walker malformation and variants craniosynostosis intracranial hemorrhage or calcification Tumors vascular birthmarks , including hemangioma and vascular malformation cervical teratoma sacrococcygeal teratoma retinoblastoma and mesoblastic nephroma Congenital Fetal Infections cytomegalovirus toxoplasmosis parvovirus Our experts also treat fetal chromosome abnormalities or genetic syndrome, fetal metabolic disease, and pregnancy alloimmunization, including red blood cell or platelet. For more information or to make an appointment, please call Fetal Diagnosis & Treatment Program Specialists is staffed by experts in maternal–fetal medicine and a full array of pediatric specialists and subspecialists who are uniquely prepared to meet your baby’s medical needs. Clinical Genetics John G. Pappas, MD Maternal–Fetal Medicine and Obstetric Ultrasound Tracy Adams, DO Martin Chavez, MD Hye J. Heo, MD Wendy L. Kinzler, MD Nadia B. Kunzier, DO Shilpi Mehta-Lee, MD Genevieve B. Sicuranza, MD Sevan A. Vahanian, MD Lili S. Wei, MD Neonatology Sean M. Bailey, MD Pradeep N. Mally, MD Donna J. Better, MD Melissa A. Busovsky-McNeal, MD Anne J. Chun, MD Gillian L. Henry, MD Emina Hodzic, MD Alan M. Langsner, MD Achiau Ludomirsky, MD Matthew N. Martinez, MD Michael J. Martinez, MD James C. Nielsen, MD Colin K. Phoon, MD Rakesh Singh, MD Ranjini Srinivasan, MD Reina Tan, MD Pediatric Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery Pediatric Nephrology Laura Malaga-Dieguez, MD, PhD Marissa Lipton, MD David H. Harter, MD Evelyn Teresa Hidalgo, MD Christina Sarris, MD Jeffrey H. Wisoff, MD Pediatric Otolaryngology Scott M. Rickert, MD Pediatric Plastic Surgery Roberto L. Flores, MD David A. Staffenberg, MD Pediatric Radiology Shailee V. Lala, MD Pediatric Surgery Jason C. Fisher, MD Keith A. Kuenzler, MD Sandra S. Tomita, MD Jun Tashiro, MD, MPH Pediatric Urology Grace S. Hyun, MD Ellen Shapiro, MD Viktor Flores, MD Join our supporters and help countless people lead independent lives after amputation surgery. Provide Specialized Care to People with Limb Loss NYU Langone Health’s Center for Amputation Reconstruction is committed to helping people with limb loss lead engaged and mobile lives. We work with patients to maximize their levels of movement and function after amputation, while offering supportive services that empower them to tackle the additional challenges posed by amputation. By fostering collaboration among surgeons, occupational therapists, prosthetists, and mental health professionals, we use a multidisciplinary approach to treat patients so they have the holistic support they need to flourish post-surgery. With Your Help, We Can Improve Lives Thanks to the generosity of the NYU Langone Giving community, our team is able to work closely with patients to understand their goals, use the most advanced surgical technologies, and comprehensively treat the complexities that accompany limb loss. Ensure Patients Thrive Post–Amputation Surgery Your gift supports the greatest needs of patients with COVID-19. We at NYU Langone Health continue to be deeply moved by the outpouring of support in the face of COVID-19. This incredible support continues to help our doctors, nurses, and other essential staff best care for New Yorkers and all the communities we serve. With your help, we have been able to fast-track life-saving ventilators to patients in intensive care, get masks to frontline workers, and accelerate a study that gives COVID-positive patients options now. Flexible funds to support our response to COVID-19 allow us to identify the greatest needs moment to moment and to quickly meet them. One hundred percent of your gift will go to fighting and ending this pandemic, including research, innovation, and patient care. A gift of any amount will make a very real difference—on our frontlines and behind the scenes. Support COVID-19 Research and Patient Care Orthopedics Care Advance breakthroughs in orthopedic research care. Ovarian and Gynecological Cancer Research and Care Help drive progress in research and patient care for ovarian and gynecological cancer. Pioneer cancer research and ensure customized care. Progress in Lung Cancer Research Drive innovation in lung cancer research and help people worldwide. Research, Education, and Care Drive breakthroughs in research, excellence in education, and lifesaving patient care. Help advance the health and wellbeing of children at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Tuition Free Scholarships Help provide full-tuition scholarships to all students enrolled in our MD degree program. William I. Spencer Fund for Head and Neck Cancer Advance lifesaving research for head and neck cancer. Your support will advance our innovative efforts to treat the most challenging neurological conditions while working toward a complete understanding of the human brain. The Brain Is Still a Mystery One billion people globally live with neurological diseases and disorders, ranging from chronic headaches to Parkinson’s disease—yet many of the brain’s inner workings are still beyond our understanding. With a steady decline in federal research dollars, investigators are having an even tougher time finding answers that could lead to less invasive therapies, reduced recovery times, and better quality of life. We have a breadth and depth of talent and commitment to innovation that provides the foundation for us to rank among the best in both fundamental research and clinical application of original discoveries. Richard W. Tsien, MD Director, Neuroscience Institute Our expertise places us No. 1 in neurology and neurosurgery programs nationally, according to the latest “Best Hospitals” rankings. With Your Help, We’re Uncovering Answers With strengths in all major subspecialties, our neurology and neurosurgery teams pioneer studies on the brain and the many medical conditions associated with it. Our experts are unique in their commitment to research at every level—from innovative clinical trials to pure laboratory investigations. Their work translates into the safest and most effective treatments available today, both in the clinic and in the operating room. Your support will help us deliver the best care and ensure we contribute significantly to the growing global body of knowledge in neurology and neurosurgery. Help Drive Advances in Neurology FACES (Finding a Cure for Epilepsy and Seizures) Help find a cure for epilepsy. Genitourinary Cancer Care Support the urologists, medical oncologists, and radiation oncologists who treat prostate, kidney, bladder, and testicular cancers. Hassenfeld Children’s Center for Cancer and Blood Disorder Drive advancement in research and care for pediatric cancer and blood disorders. Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital Provide crucial and comprehensive care for children and their families. Honor NYU Langone Nurses Give thanks to our heroes on the frontlines. KiDS of NYU Langone Help ensure that children and families receive the medical care and support they need. Medical School Scholarships Support the next generation of leaders in medicine. Mineola Cancer Center for Kids Help us continue to provide the best care possible for children throughout cancer diagnosis and treatment. Support New York State’s first medical school focused on primary care. Paying It Forward After surviving breast cancer, philanthropist and former United States ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago, Beatrice W. Welters wanted to “pay it forward” by educating women about the importance of early detection and treatment. Consequently, the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center was created in 2016. A Critically Important Focus Our target populations include African-American/Black women, who are twice as likely to have aggressive types of breast cancer that are harder to treat, and Hispanic and Latinx women, for whom breast cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related death. The Welters Program educates women about breast cancer and the paramount importance of screening. Early screening can help identify cancer when it can be most effectively treated. The program also assists women in navigating the healthcare system through one-on-one guidance and direct interaction. Patient navigators, who are the key differentiators of program, go into communities to meet the women we seek to serve, where they live. The navigators play a pivotal role in supporting women—through one-to-one interaction—to negotiate the sometimes complex health care system. This unique approach supports women from screening through diagnosis to treatment, into, and through survivorship. Patient navigators identify women who could benefit from breast cancer screening through outreach and educational programs in community venues that women routinely visit, such as beauty salons, churches, and mosques. Growth of the program includes expanding this program into new communities by adding additional navigators, getting more women into clinical trials, providing genetic counseling, and continuing to share our Welters Program experiences with other healthcare systems and providers seeking to address the issues of inequity of access and service for women of color. Support the Welters Program Celebrating the Sala Institute On November 12, our community came together to celebrate Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care and honor Jason C. Fisher, MD. As a champion for Sala’s culture of care, Dr. Fisher is profoundly committed to providing the very best surgical care to children and their families. On a night filled with hope and joy, we shared the story of a young family whose newborn daughter’s life was saved by Dr. Fisher and a team of experts at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Our most special thanks goes to Sala’s co-founders, Trudy Elbaum Gottesman and Robert W. Gottesman, for their visionary leadership to ensure every child and family who comes through our doors receives compassionate, personalized support. One hundred and thirty guests attended the event and celebrated $3,217,155 in fundraising for Sala Institute. These vital funds will directly benefit children who receive care at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital and their families through Sala’s supportive services, resilience programs, partnership programs, and safety and quality initiatives. Learn more about Sala Institute Support Sala Institute Stephen E. Banner Fund for Lung Cancer Research Driving breakthroughs in lung cancer research. For almost three decades, Ellen Banner and her family have supported NYU Langone’s quest to develop innovative lung cancer treatments and provide people with lung cancer with the most comprehensive, compassionate care. Because of the Banner family and the community they have cultivated around their passion for lung cancer research, NYU Langone has made tremendous strides. Meeting the evolving needs of patients The Stephen E. Banner Fund for Lung Cancer Research positions NYU Langone scientists and doctors at the forefront of lung cancer investigations and gives our staff the ability to offer state-of-the-art care and social work, counseling, and advocacy resources to lung cancer patients and their families. About Stephen E. Banner Stephen E. Banner is lovingly remembered as a devoted husband and father to his four children, a loyal and generous friend, and a brilliant lawyer. An honors graduate of Yale College and Harvard Law School, Steve clerked for Judge Irving R. Kaufman of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit before moving on to success in the corporate department at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett. In 1991, he became a senior executive at the Seagram Company, one of his longtime clients. Renowned among his colleagues for his incisive intellect, quick wit, and personal charisma, Steve was also the kind of man who would go out of his way to help mentor young associates or write silly rhymed verse for his friends’ birthdays. Never happier than when he was with his wife and children, he tended to downplay his own considerable professional accomplishments in favor of his kids’ triumphs. His warmth and joie de vivre still inspire all who knew him. The Stephen E. Banner Professorship in Thoracic Oncology This endowed professorship funds the work of surgeon-scientist Harvey Pass, MD, as he seeks new ideas in lung cancer research and educates the next generation of leading physicians in the field. A Letter from Ellen Banner Dear Friends, More than 25 years ago, my family and I established the Stephen E. Banner Fund for Lung Cancer Research in loving memory of my husband, Steve. Over the years, the Banner Fund has galvanized NYU Langone’s efforts to ultimately eradicate lung cancer while easing its burden on patients today. Since its inception, the Banner Fund—along with the Stephen E. Banner Professorship in Thoracic Oncology—has allowed us to raise over $10 million to foster the pioneering investigations of Harvey Pass, MD, who currently holds the professorship, Abraham Chachoua, MD, and their colleagues at the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center. With help from the Banner Fund, NYU Langone can fulfill its commitment to discovery and innovation, and provide crucial support for educational and wellness services for patients and families. One of our most recent accomplishments is a new series of videos designed to help individuals and their loved ones cope with the disease and the treatment process. Understanding Lung Cancer captures the compassion, enthusiasm, and unwavering dedication of the lung cancer team and reflects the gratitude of individuals who have received superb care. The doctors and staff at NYU Langone work tirelessly to achieve the best possible outcomes for patients, and the Banner Fund serves as a vital resource. Please consider a contribution to enable even more significant progress and touch the lives of an even greater number of people who need your help. Thank you for visiting, 13.1 Meaningful Miles Join us in raising critical funds to help reduce the tremendous burden of cancer on the people of Brooklyn. Help expand innovative programs that advance cancer prevention, early detection, and more. Search for a Runner or a Team Search for your friends or family to donate to them specifically, or to their team! View Leaderboard Fundraising Progress $287.00 $1,500.00 GOAL Search For a Participant Search For a Team Team See How Your Miles Make a Difference Whether you are running the race or cheering from the sidelines, your support fuels our essential work in cancer research and care. Get Involved Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean in varius ex. Nullam eget rhoncus elit, vitae interdum nisl. Vivamus eget venenatis arcu, quis dapibus ipsum. Join Us Sponsorship opportunities Thank You to our Sponsers Your Impact 501 team supporters in 2023 $71,531 raised in 2023 1,428 total miles ran I am interested in running with Team NYU Langone. Where can I get more information? You can visit https://nycruns.com/race/nycruns-brooklyn-half-marathon Where can I find more information about the race? Will I be notified of gifts made to my fundraising page? Yes. You will receive an email notification whenever a gift is made to your fundraising page. What if someone wishes to make their gift by mail instead? Donors are welcome to make gifts by mail. Have them make checks payable to NYU Langone Health and mail to: NYU Langone Health Office of Development 1 Park Avenue, 5th Floor Please instruct donors to write “Half Marathon” and the name of the individual or team that they are supporting. This way we can update the totals. Will donors be thanked for their gift to the fundraising page? When donors make their gift, they will immediately receive a confirmation email, which can also be used as a tax receipt.  When you log in to your account, you will be able to see all donors and send them a thank-you directly through the portal. What is NYU Langone’s tax ID number? NYU Langone Health’s tax ID is 133971298.  You can provide this tax-exempt number to businesses that make donations to your page and need to verify the tax status of NYU Langone. Can my donors apply for corporate matching gifts? Yes. Anyone who works for a company that participates in a corporate matching gift program can apply for a match if NYU Langone is an eligible organization. Fundraising Tools Lorem Heading Lorem Button Why We Run We asked our community of runners: Why are you running with Team NYU Langone? Read their answers Go the Extra Mile for Revolutionary Medicine Join Team NYU Langone in the water, on the course, or around the track Athletic fundraisers push the limits of what’s possible Turn your athletic achievements into major medical impact. As you put in the hours of training, we’ll be right by your side, pushing the boundaries of healthcare. NYCRUNS Brooklyn Half Marathon Run 13.1 miles in Brooklyn and raise funds for lifesaving cancer programs in the borough. Run with us TD Five Boro Bike Tour Ride through every New York City borough and accomplish even more for cancer research and patient care. Bike with us Long Island Golf Classic Enjoy a world-class course and support scholarships for the next generation of aspiring physicians. Golf with us Compete in 10 athletic events and power innovative research at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Join athletes and corporate partners to support early-stage clinical trials for cancer therapies. I am a third-year medical student and looking for a way to give back to such an amazing institution, engage with my community, and, most importantly, support patients. Reagan M. Team NYU Langone, Brooklyn Half Marathon Verizon New York City Triathlon Swim, bike, and run with NYU Langone—the official healthcare and medical provider of the race. Join our team Virtual Races Challenge yourself to reach new goals and inspire your community to support cancer research. 2023 TCS New York City Marathon Help us set the pace for the future of cancer medicine as you achieve one of the ultimate goals in athletics. We are thrilled to invite the FACES community back to Pier Sixty at Chelsea Piers for FACES Gala 2025! Your gala ticket includes access to an exciting evening featuring the highly anticipated silent and live auctions, cocktail hour, hors d’oeuvres, formal dinner, and program. All proceeds from tickets, digital journal, and auctions will directly support the NYU Langone Comprehensive Center’s groundbreaking research, patient care, and vital support services for patients and their families. These programs include the Parent Network, FACES Apartments, the Dr. Blanca Vazquez Summer Camp Scholarship, and the FACES College Scholarship. For any inquiries, questions, or addition information, please contact a FACES team member at 646-558-0900 or To help you prepare for procedures, tests, hospitalization, or rehabilitation, we offer the Prepare for Surgery, Heal Faster™ program through NYU Langone’s . Based on the techniques developed by Peggy Huddleston, our trained facilitators conduct workshops to teach relaxation techniques by phone or at the hospital bedside. The program uses five steps to ease stress-related symptoms before surgery and improve recovery time. Using the instruction pamphlet and accompanying audio, you’re encouraged to explore the process of deep relaxation. Deep relaxation can be used during any procedure, but is especially helpful during , biopsies, chemotherapy, endoscopy, radiation therapy, cardiac catheterization, physical or cardiac rehabilitation, and any other major therapies or procedures. By practicing deep relaxation, it is possible to reduce and promote a feeling of calmness, which in turn soothes the nervous system and helps strengthen the immune system. Relaxation also helps balance the endocrine and cardiovascular systems, which promotes overall healing. workshops are available to all NYU Langone patients. Please call to make an appointment. You can also ask your nurse about the program during your preadmission testing appointment This program is offered free of charge to NYU Langone patients and their families through the generous support of Sid and Helaine Lerner. Relaxation, breathing exercises, and yoga can instill a sense of peace and wellbeing and reduce stress, pain, and during medical treatment or a hospital stay. Due to 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19), our integrative health group programs are paused at this time. The following resources can be accessed while in the hospital or recovering at home. Relaxation Videos and Recordings During the hospital stay, a selection of relaxation videos and recordings is available on some televisions. You can also call our hotline at 212-404-3800 for 3- or 9-minute recorded guided relaxation exercises. This service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and can be accessed either while in the hospital or at home. Relaxation Cards We offer step-by-step written instructions on focused breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, and guided imagery. Relaxation cards are available in Breathing Exercises Breathing exercises can be done anywhere, at any time, making them one of the easiest types of relaxation exercises. Try this simple breathing technique: While breathing in and out slowly and steadily, focus your mind on an intention such as relaxation, calmness, or letting go of negative thoughts. Imagine seeing your intention in big, bold letters in your mind, or silently or softly say the word to yourself as you exhale. and Lerner Health Promotions Program are coordinated by the following healthcare professionals. Integrative Health and Lerner Health Promotions Program Leadership Debra Albert, DNP, MBA, RN, NEA-BC, Chief Nursing Officer and Senior Vice President for Patient Care Services, Lerner Director of Health Promotion As the Lerner Director of Health Promotion, Dr. Albert provides vision and leadership for the integration of health and wellness practices, with a focus on a holistic approach to patient care. This endowed position was established by Helaine and Sid Lerner in the Departments of Nursing and Patient Care Services. She is also chief nursing officer and senior vice president for patient care services at NYU Langone. Dr. Albert earned her bachelor of science in nursing and master of science in nursing at the University of Akron. She holds a master’s degree in business administration from Cleveland State University and participated in the Wharton Fellows Program in Management for Nurse Executives. She received her doctorate of nursing practice from Rush University and is a board-certified nurse executive. Fariza Alendy, MSW, MPH, Program Director for Health Promotion Ms. Alendy directs the administrative, fiscal, and operational undertakings of health promotion and integrative health services across the NYU Langone Health enterprise. She is a dynamic public health professional with diverse experiences spanning various health and human service industry sectors. Her expertise in innovative programming, project management, and astute leadership has enabled her to build robust systems, streamline operations, and cultivate impactful stakeholder relationships. With a dedicated focus on optimizing resources, fostering collaboration, and driving measurable outcomes, Ms. Alendy remains steadfast in her commitment to supporting the wellness and resilience of patients, care partners/families, and staff alike. Integrative Health Program Staff at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion Erica Alinkofsky, BSN, RN, HNB-BC, Senior Nurse Clinician, Certified Integrative Yoga Therapy Teacher Ms. Alinkofsky is a certified holistic nurse with more than a decade of experience providing care to children and for adults both before and after surgery. She enjoys finding creative ways to incorporate relaxation breathing, meditation, and yoga with patients and staff. She is a certified yoga teacher at the 200-hour level with trainings in accessible yoga and chair yoga. She has completed Reiki level II certification and has additional training in aromatherapy, full body 'M' Technique®, and Therapeutic Touch®. An advocate for Prepare for Surgery, Heal Faster™, she finds great joy in helping offer this mind–body program to patients and families at the bedside and beyond. devynn emory, RN, BSN, HNB-BC, LMT, Senior Nurse Clinician emory is a board-certified holistic nurse with 7 years of clinical experience at NYU including medical–surgical, gender affirming surgery and COVID nursing. They hold a bachelor’s of fine arts in choreography, earned a bachelor of science degree in nursing from NYU, and hold licenses in medical massage and in eastern medicine. They are currently studying to become a Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner at D'Youville College. They hold certifications in Yoga, Reflexology, aromatherapy and are a Reiki master. They are certified in Prepare for Surgery Heal Faster and Empowered Relief. Their practice focuses on culturally sensitive, patient centered care. Tina Kachnowski RN, MSN, CCRN, AHN-BC, HWNC-BC Tina is a Nurse Clinician with the Department of Integrative Health at NYU Langone.  She has been a nurse for 21 years and worked in Oncology, Bone Marrow Transplant, and Critical Care before discovering her passion for Holistic Nursing. Tina has a BS in Nursing from Fairfield University and an MS in Holistic Nursing from Tennessee State University. She is a Board Certified Advanced Holistic Nurse, Critical Care Nurse, and Health & Wellness Nurse Coach. Tina is certified in Aromatherapy, ‘M’ Technique®, HeartMath®, and is a Reiki Master. She also holds certificates in Clinical Meditation & Imagery, Transpersonal Nurse Coaching, and Wellness Counseling. Tina routinely presents in the Nurse Residency Program, provides Prepare for Surgery Heal Faster workshops for patients, and provides unit wellness to support staff well-being. Tina is proud to help provide whole person Integrative care at NYU Langone Health. Lerner Health Promotion Darah Salmaggi, MS, RMT, Program Manager, Integrative Health, Lerner Health Promotions Program Ms. Salmaggi holds a master’s degree in human services leadership and is a certified Usui and Karuna Reiki master and teacher and a Prepare for Surgery, Heal Faster™–trained provider. As a certified energy medicine practitioner, she integrates her passion for energy modalities into her employee self-care and patient practices. Her formal training as a certified psychiatric rehabilitation practitioner blends with her education in holistic leadership to provide tailored services of self-care for vitality. Marci Resnicoff, BSN, BA, RN, HNB-BC, CNTP, Clinical Nurse Coordinator, Integrative Health, Lerner Health Promotions Program Ms. Resnicoff holds bachelor degrees in nursing and psychology and is currently pursuing her master’s degree in advanced holistic nursing. She is a board-certified holistic nurse and a Reiki master teacher and practitioner, and holds a certificate in nutrition therapy. She serves on the board of directors of the American Holistic Nurses Credentialing Corporation and is a past member of the board of directors of the American Holistic Nurses Association. She has more than 20 years of experience sharing mind–body therapies with others and has been a nurse at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn for more than 10 years. cardiologists have one mission: to support our patients so they maintain their heart health and to provide solutions for improving it where needed. To achieve this, our team of heart specialists works together to prevent, detect, and treat all conditions that affect the cardiovascular system, which consists of the heart and blood vessels. As one of the top-ranked programs in the country, we provide the highest-quality and most-advanced cardiovascular care. We partner with our patients to promote cardiovascular health through early detection and prevention. In addition, we provide highly tailored therapy, including rehabilitation, for patients with established cardiovascular disease, whether this impacts the heart’s electrical system, the blood vessels, or the structure and function of the heart and heart valves. Heart Disease Prevention An important part of our holistic approach to care is prevention. We provide screening to help you identify risk factors for cardiovascular disease, including such as high cholesterol. We help you control these risk factors through lifestyle changes such as nutrition and exercise or with medication. Specialized preventive care for people at high risk is available through the . In addition, patients who have cancer can receive cardiovascular preventive care through our Conditions of the electrical system are known as hearth rhythm disorders. These include atrial fibrillation (A-fib) and atrial flutter supraventricular arrhythmias ventricular arrhythmias . Our cardiologists assess your symptoms and use cardiac testing and imaging to diagnose your condition. We create a personalized care plan and refer you to experts in electrophysiology at the as needed for further testing and treatment. Treatment for Cardiovascular Conditions Our cardiologists provide care for cardiovascular conditions that include lower extremity artery disease . As part of creating your personalized care plan, we collaborate with specialists at the who provide minimally invasive testing and treatment of these conditions. We help to manage your condition with medications and lifestyle changes, improving your overall cardiac health. Heart Function and Heart Valve Care If our cardiologists detect structural changes in the heart such as muscle weakening, also known as , we can provide treatments to improve your quality of life. We may also refer you to our for more-intensive treatment options, including novel medications, implantable devices, or heart transplantation. We can also accurately diagnose abnormalities in the heart valves such as stenosis (narrowing) or regurgitation (leakage) and monitor your heart health. We can recommend seeking treatment at our if surgery or a transcatheter procedure is necessary. Our cardiologists collaborate with a team of specialists to manage your heart or vascular condition. We provide expert care for heart rhythm disorders such as atrial fibrillation. We use minimally invasive techniques to diagnose and treat blocked arteries. Cardiac Surgery Preventive Cardiology At the Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, we provide focused, personalized care to prevent cardiovascular disease. Specialists at our Cardio-Oncology Program support the heart health of people who have cancer or are cancer survivors. NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Expands Cardiac Services NYU Langone Expands Care by Adding Florida Cardiology Group Control High Blood Pressure to Ward off Alzheimer’s Disease Can a Weight Loss Drug Protect Your Heart? We have locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Staten Island, and Long Island. Experts at NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center are international leaders in using robotic technology to manage a wide range of advanced robotic-assisted procedures. For more than a decade, our surgeons have been performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in multiple specialty areas, including bariatric surgery colorectal surgery , general surgery, gynecologic surgery urologic surgery ear, nose, and throat surgery . NYU Langone orthopedic surgeons also specialize in robotic and computer-assisted hip and knee replacement . A team of specialized physician assistants, nurses, surgical technicians, and anesthesiologists supports our surgeons during every procedure. Our extensive experience and access to the most advanced robotic technology available allows us to offer procedures to manage many complex conditions. We’re able to perform surgery with pinpoint accuracy, ensuring the best possible result for each patient. The robotic procedures we perform include the following: hysterectomy for benign and cancerous conditions of the uterus weight-loss surgery, including revision surgery, for prostatectomy for and urinary obstruction kidney surgery for , including partial nephrectomy, or partial kidney removal; nephrectomy, or complete kidney removal; and nephroureterectomy, or removal of the kidney and ureter urologic cancer procedures, including cystectomy (complete bladder removal) with urinary reconstruction for and lymph node removal for advanced testicular cancer and penile cancer urologic reconstructive procedures including pyeloplasty to relieve ureteral obstruction, ureteral reconstruction for ureteral obstructive disease or cancer, sacrocolpopexy to repair lung surgery cardiac surgery, including cardiac tumor removal myomectomy, or removal of surgery for head and neck conditions treatment of , through NYU Langone’s Robotic surgery at NYU Langone is performed in dedicated operating rooms using one of our seven state-of-the-art da Vinci surgical systems. These units include advanced infrared imaging and dual consoles on which surgeons can work collaboratively. Currently, we perform more than 2,000 robotic-assisted surgeries each year. NYU Langone pioneered the development and refinement of many robotic surgery techniques and procedures, including the first robotic-assisted cardiac bypass surgery, partial kidney removal with enhanced imaging, and ureteral reconstruction using the inner lining of the cheek. We were also the first in New York City to use enhanced fluorescence imaging in cardiac, gynecologic, and general urologic robotic surgeries. As leaders in robotic surgical techniques, we train surgeons from some of the most prestigious hospitals in the nation and from around the world in how to perform the latest robotic-assisted cardiac, thoracic, gynecologic, colorectal, and urologic robotic procedures. Last year alone, we welcomed more than 250 physicians from countries including Australia, Brazil, England, France, Italy, Japan, and South Korea. Learn more about our research and educational programs Our surgeons, working across a range of specialties, use the most advanced technologies to perform minimally invasive robotic-assisted procedures. John D. Allendorf Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgeon Costas Bizekis James Borin Urologist Leslie R. Boyd Gynecologic Oncologist Collin E. Brathwaite Bariatric Surgeon Benjamin M. Brucker Robert J. Cerfolio Kent Chan Anthony Corcoran Sharon C. Cote Obstetrician Tanuja Damani General Surgeon Deanna Gerber Jordan S. Gitlin Bogdan A. Grigorescu Urogynecologist Frederick A. Gulmi View All 71 Doctors & 71 New Chief of Surgical Oncology Named by NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Robotic Surgery Offers Advanced Approach to Cardiac Tumors Robots Lend a Hand (or Four) in Brooklyn Operating Room Advanced Diagnostics & Robotic Surgery Treat Prostate Cancer Robotic surgery is a type of minimally invasive surgery during which doctors use very small surgical instruments that fit into a patient’s body through a series of tiny incisions. These instruments are mounted on three robotic arms, allowing a surgeon maximum range and precision of motion as he or she performs the procedure. A fourth arm holds a high-definition, three-dimensional camera that enhances visualization—magnifying the tissue and structures of the body tenfold—and guides the surgeon during the procedure. NYU Langone surgeons control their instruments and camera at a console in the operating room. Using finger and foot controls, they operate all four arms of the robot while looking through a stereoscopic, high-definition monitor. The robot translates the surgeon’s hand, wrist, and finger movements to guide each instrument in real-time, after scaling each movement down to size. For example, a one-inch movement may be scaled down to a quarter-inch, allowing extraordinary surgical precision and operative control. Potential Benefits of Robotic Surgery Because robotic surgery requires very small incisions, appropriately selected patients can benefit from less surgical trauma, minimal scarring, and faster recovery times than with traditional open surgery. Our surgical systems, the da Vinci Si—and our latest surgical robot, the da Vinci Xi—offer key features to improve the safety and effectiveness of robotic surgery procedures, including the following: the system’s two high-definition cameras provide the surgeon with a magnified view of the surgical site, combing very accurate depth perception with a 40 percent sharper image than previous systems an additional arm can be used to hold a retractor or other surgical instrument, giving the surgeon more operating capability instant image referencing lets the surgeon display diagnostic images, such as ultrasound or CT scan images of the area taken prior to surgery, on the da Vinci Si/Xi® monitor, alongside the surgeon’s view of the surgery being performed enhanced near-infrared imaging can be used during surgery to distinguish abnormal tissue from normal tissue and evaluate blood flow in real time extra mobile “wrist action,” with mechanical wrists that can hold an array of specialized surgical instruments and function like a human’s, but with an even greater range of motion scalability that allows the surgeon to calibrate the robot’s arm to move a fraction of an inch for every inch the surgeon’s hand moves, a feature that simplifies the most complex movements, including delicate removals as well as suturing and knot-tying Our Robotic Technology In 2008, NYU Langone became the first medical center in New York or New Jersey with the da Vinci Si surgical robot, the world’s most advanced computer-assisted surgical system at the time. Since then, we have added six more systems to the Robotic Surgery Center and were the first New York City hospital with the latest generation robotic surgical system, the da Vinci Xi. This newest robot offers broader capabilities than prior generations of the da Vinci surgical system and allows us to perform a wider range of minimally invasive procedures. NYU Langone’s experienced and highly skilled robotic surgeons use sophisticated, minimally invasive techniques to treat people who have a range of complex cancers and tumors. The types of cancer for which we are able to use robotic surgery include cancers of the digestive and gastrointestinal tract gynecologic cancers head and neck cancers urologic cancers . Our surgeons collaborate with specialists at NYU Langone’s to determine if you require further treatment after surgery. Our Expertise in Robotic Lung Cancer Surgery Our thoracic surgeons perform several different robotic procedures in people with early stages of lung cancer, including , and posterior mediastinal tumors. We also work with select patients who have been successfully treated with chemotherapy or radiation therapy and may benefit from surgery. As national leaders in a range of robotic-assisted surgeries that are used to manage several types of lung cancer, NYU Langone is one of the few institutions in the country to offer robotic lobectomies, or removal of a lobe of the lung. Our Expertise in Robotic Gynecologic Cancer Surgery Our gynecologic oncologists have vast experience in performing robotic-assisted surgery to manage gynecologic cancers, including early , fallopian tube cancer, and . Robotic surgery approaches result in faster recovery time for patients. This helps patients to return to their normal activities more quickly or begin chemotherapy or radiation treatment sooner, if it is recommended. Our surgeons use advanced techniques, such as near-infrared imaging when performing sentinel node biopsies in women who have cervical cancer, which allows them to better identify lymph nodes, remove only the most necessary lymph nodes, and reduce the short- and long-term side effects from lymph node dissection. We also play a key leadership role in the training of other surgeons to perform safe robotic surgical procedures. Our Expertise in Robotic Colorectal Cancer Surgery Our surgical oncologists and colorectal surgeons are experts in the use of robotic approaches to manage colon and rectal cancers . Their expertise in using the most advanced robotic technology enables them to remove tumors while minimizing trauma to the patient. Whenever possible, they also use nerve-sparing surgical techniques that preserve sphincter, bladder, and sexual function. Our Expertise in Robotic Urologic Cancer Surgery We have a robotic uro-oncology team that includes urologic surgeons, medical oncologists, radiation oncologists, and radiologists. Our specialties include: penile cancer ureteral cancer We are known internationally for our expertise in kidney-sparing surgery, known as partial nephrectomy, when treating people who have kidney cancer. We’ve also developed specialized techniques using advanced imaging to minimize trauma to the kidney during surgery. This leads to less blood loss and shorter hospital stays. Each year, more than 100 surgeons from around the world come to NYU Langone to observe our advanced robotic techniques for managing kidney cancer. We are cofounders of the largest kidney cancer database in the world and have published two landmark studies on the safety and effectiveness of robotic partial nephrectomy. The studies showed that robotic partial nephrectomy is more effective than laparoscopic surgery at managing kidney cancer. We offer fluorescence imaging for managing kidney cancer surgery, which gives us a more detailed picture of kidney blood flow and allows us to more clearly distinguish between cancerous and noncancerous tissue. Robotic surgery techniques for have advanced, allowing both total and partial removal of the bladder to be done in a minimally invasive way. This can reduce trauma, blood loss, and wound-related complications. NYU Langone was the first and currently the only institution in New York City to offer robotic bladder removal and robotic reconstruction of a new bladder. We pioneered many of the robotic-assisted surgical techniques used around the world today to treat cancers of the ureter, the tube that connects the bladder to the kidneys. Whenever possible, we focus on removing the affected ureter while preserving the kidney. Our team has also pioneered the use of robotic surgery techniques and fluorescence imaging to perform lymph node removal for advanced testis and penile cancer. These advances have dramatically reduced pain, length of hospital stay, and surgery-related complications for our patients. We use one of the world’s largest and most experienced advanced MRI imaging and biopsy programs to maximize outcomes during robotic prostate cancer surgery. Our goal is to manage the cancer while preserving sexual and urinary function. Obstetrics & Gynecology View All Locations (26) We have locations throughout New York City and Long Island. Gynecologic Care & Wellness Family Planning Services Complex Gynecologic Services Gynecologic Cancer Care Fertility Services Pregnancy Care Midwifery Services Leaders in Gynecologic Care Our experts specialize in robotic-assisted surgery to treat complex conditions such as endometriosis, fibroids, and cancer. Excellence in Advanced Perinatal Care We are certified by The Joint Commission for our excellence in caring for mothers and babies before and after birth. Inclusive Care We provide care that respects the needs of people of all gender identities. At NYU Langone, we are committed to providing personalized, compassionate, and equitable care that meets all of our patients’ obstetric and gynecologic needs. Our services include wellness exams and preventive care, family planning and contraception, pregnancy and childbirth care, fertility services, , and menopause management. Our doctors also offer the most advanced and innovative treatment options for all gynecologic conditions, including pelvic floor disorders, endometriosis, fibroids, and gynecologic cancers. Best Hospitals for Maternity Care NYU Langone ranks as one of the nation’s best hospitals for maternity care, according to U.S. News & World Report. This reflects our commitment to providing the highest-quality labor and delivery care for our patients. Learn About our Pregnancy Care Managing All Your Gynecologic Care Needs Maintaining gynecologic health starts with routine wellness exams , where your doctor discusses with you any concerns or questions you have about your menstrual cycle or sexual health.We also offer specialized care and support for women during . We provide diagnostic screening for and sexually transmitted diseases, and help you choose the family planning method that works best for you and your lifestyle. We offer the most advanced care for complex gynecologic conditions fibroids vulvar conditions . We also partner with NYU Langone’s to provide diagnostic testing, imaging, and treatment for cancers of the reproductive system. Our surgeons specialize in uterine-preserving and fertility-sparing procedures, including robotic-assisted surgical techniques that allow for greater precision, smaller incisions, and a faster recovery time. Pregnancy Care and Fertility Services Midwifery, an Age-Old Practice, Is Modernized at NYU Langone NYU Langone Welcomes Inaugural Director of Midwifery Care starts with preconception counseling to optimize your health before . This includes guidance on healthy lifestyle choices and evaluating the potential impact that any preexisting conditions, such as , may have on your health and that of your baby. Each year, our obstetrician–gynecologists deliver more than 15,000 babies, and focus on providing the safest possible experience for mothers and babies. During pregnancy, we use advanced screening and imaging tools to monitor your baby’s growth and development. If you or your baby require treatment or therapies during pregnancy, we refer you to our , who specialize in high-risk pregnancy care. If you have difficulty conceiving, we connect you with our experts in fertility care , who specialize in fertility-enhancing techniques, including in vitro fertilization. We also offer fertility options for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ+), including donor eggs, donor sperm, and gestational carriers. For people who would like to preserve their fertility, including before cancer treatment, we offer egg freezing and embryo freezing. Leaders in Breastfeeding Support Our hospitals have earned Baby-Friendly designation by Baby-Friendly USA for supporting breastfeeding and fostering mother–baby bonding after birth. Surgical care and childbirth take place at one of our inpatient facilities: in Manhattan, in Sunset Park, and in Mineola. Our obstetrician–gynecologists provide care at our hospitals and doctor’s practices across New York City and Long Island, including the network of in Brooklyn. Our Programs and Services We provide testing, monitoring, and treatment for people experiencing high-risk pregnancies. Learn More About Our Maternal–Fetal Medicine Services Our experts in maternal–fetal care, pediatrics, and genetics treat conditions diagnosed before birth. Learn More About the Fetal Diagnosis & Treatment Program Center for Female Pelvic Medicine Our team provides advanced treatment for conditions affecting the bladder or reproductive organs. Learn More About the Center for Female Pelvic Medicine We provide diagnosis, treatment, and support services for people with endometriosis. Learn More About the Endometriosis Center Center for Fibroid Care Our doctors provide diagnosis and treatment of fibroid tumors and help prevent recurrence. Learn More About the Center for Fibroid Care Center for Midlife Health & Menopause We provide treatment and support for symptoms related to menopause. Learn More About the Center for Midlife Health & Menopause Our Fertility Specialists We offer classes and support groups to help you throughout pregnancy and prepare for parenthood. Learn More About Our Parent Education Programs Our Locations (26) Joseph S. & Diane H. Steinberg Ambulatory Care Center—Cobble Hill 929-455-2500 929-455-2550 NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Bay Ridge Main Phone 929-455-2000 Cardiac and Vascular Phone 929-455-2740 Cardiac and Vascular Fax 929-455-2750 Orthopedics, Podiatry, and Rheumatology Phone Orthopedics, Podiatry, and Rheumatology Fax 929-455-2020 All Other Specialties Phone 929-455-2700 All Other Specialties Fax 929-455-2770 NYU Langone Brooklyn Medical Arts Pavilion 8714 Fifth Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11209 718-630-8600 718-630-8615 NYU Langone Brooklyn OB/GYN Associates—4th Avenue 10031 Fourth Avenue, Suite 1J, Brooklyn, NY, 11209 718-921-0106 NYU Langone Brooklyn OB/GYN Associates—60th Street 757 60th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11220 929-455-6517 929-455-9418 NYU Langone OB/GYN Associates—Midwood 1220 Avenue P, Brooklyn, NY, 11236 718-975-7802 929-455-9049 NYU Langone Reproductive Specialists of New York—Brooklyn 16 Court Street, 27th Floor, Brooklyn, NY, 11241 718-935-9766 NYU Langone OB/GYN Associates—Great Neck 600 Northern Boulevard, Suite 106, Great Neck, NY, 11021 516-466-4128 NYU Langone Huntington Medical Group—Commack 2171 Jericho Turnpike, Suite 202, Commack, NY, 11725 631-425-8181 NYU Langone Medical Associates—530 Hicksville Road 530 Hicksville Road, Bethpage, NY, 11714 516-240-7940 NYU Langone Reproductive Specialists of New York—Mineola 200 Old Country Road, Suite 350, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-739-2100 NYU Langone Women’s Health Associates—New Hyde Park 2500 Marcus Avenue, Suite 105, New Hyde Park, NY, 11042 516-358-1200 159 East 53rd Street, 5th Floor, New York, NY, 10022 Physician Appointments 646-754-3300 917-829-2071 NYU Langone Ambulatory Care West Side 355 West 52nd Street, New York, NY, 10019 646-754-2100 646-754-2585 159 East 53rd Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY, 10022 212-263-8990 212-263-8827 Fertility Center—NoMad 109 West 27th Street, 9th Floor, New York, NY, 10001 212-263-0040 929-455-9569 Joan H. & Preston Robert Tisch Center at Essex Crossing 171 Delancey Street, 2nd Floor, New York, NY, 10002 929-455-2600 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Penn District 360 West 31st Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY, 10001 646-987-3436 646-293-1441 NYU Langone Obstetrics & Gynecology Associates 646-754-9803 111 Broadway, New York, NY, 10006 Urgent Care Phone 646-461-2544 NYU Langone Gynecology Associates—New Dorp 97 New Dorp Lane, Staten Island, NY, 10306 718-987-9888 718-987-9882 NYU Langone Astoria Medical Associates 23-18 31st Street, Suite 300, Astoria, NY, 11105 718-204-2200 ‘NBC News Daily’ Anchor Shares Her Fibroid Journey Five Things to Know About the New Birth Control Opill AI Tool Accurately Answers Questions on Gynecologic Cancers New Oncologist Combines Clinical & Operations Roles NYU Langone Implements New App to Address Maternal Mortality Woman to Become Mom After Fertility-Sparing Cancer Treatment NYU Langone Hosts Baby Shower on Long Island for Moms-To-Be Woman Welcomes First Child After Having 26 Fibroids Removed Our Team Approach to Robotic Surgery NYU Langone’s medical support staff is specially trained in assisting with robotic procedures at the Robotic Surgery Center. These operating room nurses, physician assistants, and surgical technicians are present at all times during every robotic procedure we perform. Our surgical support staff has received specialized education in the set-up and operation of our surgical systems, and they work with our surgeons on a daily basis. They also receive periodic training sessions, including training on any equipment or instrument that has been newly adapted for robotic-assisted surgeries. In addition, our physician assistants use their extensive medical and surgical experience to ensure efficiency and safety during procedures and throughout pre- and postoperative care. Our physician assistant coordinator, Suzannah Sorin, PA-C, MPAS, has been working with the Robotic Surgery Center since its establishment. She has participated in more than 1,500 robotic surgeries in various specialties at NYU Langone and assists in teaching robotic surgery to NYU Grossman School of Medicine residents. Our team of highly experienced anesthesiologists have perfected specialized anesthesia techniques for robotic-assisted surgeries. These include improved patient positioning to prevent complications, maximizing lung function during surgery, and techniques to minimize pain after surgery. Your gift today supports the next generation of leaders in medicine and our historic commitment to provide full-tuition scholarships for all MD degree students at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Tomorrow’s Medical Leaders Deserve a Chance to Thrive Across the country, 71 percent of graduates leave medical school with an average of $194,000 in student loans, according to the Association of American Medical Colleges. Faced with this financial burden, students are choosing more lucrative specialties over primary care or forgoing a medical degree altogether. By taking tuition off the table for all of our MD degree students, NYU Grossman School of Medicine is sending a clear signal to young people considering a career in medicine: medical school is now within your reach—regardless of your financial means. We are committed to improving affordability and access to a world-class education. Scholarships guarantee that the very best applicants have the opportunity to obtain the training and support they deserve. With your help, we can continue to cultivate a vibrant medical community and prepare the next generation of graduates to thrive. The cost of medical school can deprive our profession—and those we serve—of entire cohorts of talented people. But we are building a robust scholarship program that enables many gifted, disadvantaged students to attend our school. Dean and CEO, NYU Langone Together, We’re Making It Happen In 2018, announced that we would be the first top-ranked medical school in the nation to award all MD degree students full-tuition scholarships. We could not have made this promise to our students without the generosity of all who have contributed to scholarships over the years. But we aren’t done yet. Only with your support today can we sustain our scholarship program for tomorrow’s outstanding students. Help us continue to dramatically reduce medical student debt in perpetuity, so future doctors can pursue their true passions and make a difference through medicine. Support Medical School Scholarships Help us deliver the best, most compassionate care for children and families. KiDS of NYU Langone helps find answers to a simple but profound question: What can we do to make health care better for children and families? It might mean sponsoring a fun activity from a playful child life expert who knows how to make a sick kid smile. It might mean equipping an operating room with state-of-the-art technology. Or it might mean inspiring an entire institution with a new vision of transformative change. Whatever it takes, KiDS is ready to lead the way. Your Support Can Make the Difference KiDS has come far from its origins as a small, grassroots organization of doctors, parents, and supporters passionate about improving children’s health. In the 25 years since its founding, KiDS has helped build a state-of-the-art pediatric emergency care facility, contributed to the launch of the Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care, and paved the way for the 2018 opening of the . Thanks to KiDS and the KiDS Advisory Board, we are stronger than ever and positioned to make a lasting impact on children’s health in New York City and beyond. Your support of KiDS helps ensure that children and families will receive the medical care and support they need. Transforming Care for Children and Families The new home for Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital will be the culmination of a sweeping transformation in our children’s services and will allow us to continue to dramatically expand our comprehensive efforts to care for New York City’s families. The Story of KiDS of NYU Langone Support for KiDS  provides world-class, family-centered care; funds research for childhood illnesses; and fosters therapeutic and recreational activities for patients and their siblings. If you would like to make a gift by mail, please send it to: Stacey Chait Help Make Healthcare Better for Children and Families Your gift will support medical students pursuing a career in primary care. The Future of Primary Care New York State—and the entire nation—needs many more primary care physicians, but all too often, medical students must choose different, higher-paying specialties because of the realities of student debt. We owe it to them, and to the communities who need their service, to put a career in primary care within their reach. That’s why NYU launched NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine in close collaboration with NYU Langone Health, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, and NYU Grossman School of Medicine. New York State’s First Primary Care–Medical School NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine is a new medical school on the NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island campus in Mineola, Long Island; its sole mission and purpose is to train and graduate outstanding primary care physicians. The only school of its kind in New York State, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine will help address the shortage of primary care physicians state- and nationwide by offering full-tuition scholarships to all; by providing well-rounded courses, clerkships, and learning experiences focused entirely on primary care; and by accelerating students’ education through our three-year curriculum and other innovative features. Help Provide an Education in Primary Care That’s Second to None Your gift will help NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine train primary care physicians who will deliver the very best care to patients and who will be prepared to become leaders in their local community and beyond. Support the NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Your gift to FACES helps our specialists make major strides toward a cure for epilepsy, while providing exceptional clinical care, education, awareness, and support to all who come to us for care. More than 2 million Americans live with epilepsy, a debilitating condition with no cure. To work toward a future free of epilepsy, scientists need funding that allows them to continue their pioneering studies. In the meantime, patients and families need excellent care and support to ensure the best possible quality of life. The heart of FACES is people: our doctors, nurses, neuropsychologists, scientists, technicians, and administrators—and most importantly the people we care for, their families, and friends. FACES (Finding a Cure for Epilepsy and Seizures) enables faculty and staff at NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Epilepsy Center to advance exceptional clinical care, cutting-edge research, ongoing patient education, and community support programs for children, adults, families, and caregivers who live with epilepsy and seizures. Funding through FACES gives our experts the ability to launch significant studies, such as an exploration of the immune system’s role in epilepsy. It allows them to develop new methods of delivering medications directly to the brain and fosters their efforts to devise the latest surgical techniques. At the same time, FACES improves quality of life for patients and families through special opportunities like Game Day, need-based college scholarships for patients, the Peace of Mind no-cost lecture series, the annual Epilepsy Conference, educational DVDs, parent network support program, and much more. Your generosity toward FACES means we can move even more quickly toward a cure for epilepsy and seizures, while providing the best care and support to our patients today. To learn more about how your gift to FACES is used for research, education, and clinical and community support programs, please visit our page on the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center’s site FACES Email Sign Up Support FACES Discover the Power of Philanthropy for Kids Provide hope for thousands of kids and families. Your support creates a healthier future The generosity of our community leads to tremendous breakthroughs in care, research, and medical innovation. We can change lives together and pave the way for a brighter future for children everywhere. Greatest Need Help us take on the most pressing challenges and lead the way in pediatric medicine. Sala Institute for Child & Family Centered Care Ensure every child and family receives personalized, high-quality, safe care. Join us to support their health and well-being. Make a child’s hospital stay a positive experience with resources focused on therapeutic play, comfort, and self-expression before and after treatment. Everyone at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital is dedicated to delivering the best medical, surgical, and supportive care to every child. Dr. Catherine S. Manno Chair, Department of Pediatrics Wish Lists Help us provide the little things that help kids feel like kids. Make sure they have what they need to thrive within and outside our hospital walls. Toys, Games, Art Supplies, and More Coping Kit and Sensory items Skyline Studio Bingo Prizes Fundraise for Hassenfeld Children's Hospital Encourage your friends and family to support a cause close to your heart. Create your page Honor a Doctor or Nurse Give back to the people who work tirelessly to keep our kids healthy and safe. Create a Fundraiser Launch your own fundraiser focused on elements of care most important to you. Hassenfeld has changed my life, has changed my daughter’s life, has changed so many other kids' lives – all for the better – and in a way that there's no way to describe. Kathrin Parent The Impact of Giving You can make a real difference in children’s lives. See how friends like you fuel our groundbreaking work. 540K outpatient visits a year 400 pediatric doctors providing lifesaving care 100% of children receive supportive care new children's hospital in NYC in over 15 years Every donation makes a difference at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. We do things that make a big difference for kids and their families in our community. Susie Block Casdin Co-Chair, KiDS of NYU Langone Learn more about Hassenfeld Children's Hospital > Support Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital Give thanks to our heroes on the frontline. Nurses are at the core of every positive care experience, and there’s a reason why. They’re at the frontlines of it all, from the most complex surgeries to the quickest follow-up visits. Nurses are there to help you celebrate new life coming into the world, support you through a new diagnosis and treatment, help you manage ongoing illness and comfort families dealing with loss.  Whether your stay lasts 30 minutes or a month, they help keep you as healthy and happy as possible—all while making you feel special. More than expert health care professionals, nurses are flawless communicators, savvy navigators, thoughtful advocates, and even top-flight playmates (for those younger patients). At NYULH, we have the best nurses in the country.Every day, our nurse show up focused on our patients and looking for ways to continuously improve what we do so that our patients receive the exceptional care they deserve. Debra Albert, DNP, MBA, RN, NEA-BC Chief Nursing Officer and Senior Vice President for Patient Care Services, Lerner Director of Health Promotion In recent years, the emotional and psychological well-being of our nurses has been challenged like never before. With this is mind, NYU Langone has made it a priority to implement critical intervention and supportive services for our frontline staff. Show your gratitude for all that our nurses do by making a donation to our Nursing Wellness & Resiliency Fund. Your gift will help develop innovative infrastructure, programming, and resources to support our heroes on the frontlines. By building the foundational support of healthier nurses, we can ensure their mental and emotional health. Support the Dedicated Nurses of NYU Langone Health You can help write the next chapter by supporting full-tuition scholarships for all future students at NYU Grossman School of Medicine It’s a dream come true: every MD degree student’s tuition is covered in full through philanthropic support. On August 16, 2018, NYU Grossman School of Medicine surprised students and their families with the life-changing news that every student enrolled in our MD degree program will receive full-tuition scholarship. The announcement marked an unforgettable first chapter in our students’ medical careers, but the story isn’t over. Our Tuition Free initiative is funded entirely through the generosity of our alumni and friends, and we need your support. Make a gift today to ensure that all future classes of students receive the same scholarship opportunities, regardless of financial need or medical specialty. Support Tuition Free Scholarships Support advancements in head and neck cancer research. A letter from Susan Namm Spencer This year, Bill would have turned 100, and we are proud that his generosity of spirit lives on through the Spencer Fund. Fifteen years ago, we began fundraising to establish the William I. Spencer Fund for Head and Neck Cancer at NYU Langone. Since then, the Spencer Fund has raised more than $2 million to support impressive progress at the Head and Neck Center. To mark Bill’s centennial, I hope you will join me to make one final gift to the Spencer Fund in his memory. Your gift will strengthen Bill’s legacy and enable the NYU Langone Head and Neck Center to make an even greater difference in the lives of patients and their families facing this terrible disease. To date, support of friends like you has helped: Expand the multidisciplinary team from 8 to 45 physicians, including six full-time surgeons in addition to oncologists, pathologists, radiologists, and additional support staff. Increase overall patient volume more than tenfold. Introduce cutting-edge procedures and improve patient safety and quality of care. Build research and clinical trial capacity to advance personalized medicine and surgical techniques. Establish head and neck fellowships to train the next generation of experts. Treat underserved populations at Bellevue Hospital and in Haiti, India, and Kenya. Thank you. Warmest regards, Susan Namm Spencer Support Head and Neck Cancer Research Your support of NYU Langone helps bring out the best in our doctors, researchers, and students. We’re Giving New Yorkers What They Expect—The Very Best At NYU Langone, we never stop pushing ourselves. Our patients depend on it, our leadership expects it, and our people—doctors, students, scientists, and supporters—embrace it. It’s what we’ve always done—but over the past decade, we’ve taken it to another level. Our commitment has made us a leader in healthcare and earned us the highest rankings, including No. 1 in New York and No. 3 in the nation on ’s “Best Hospitals.” NYU School Grossman of Medicine is ranked No. 2 out of 185 schools nationwide for research by ’ “Best Medical Schools.” We’ve been hailed by publications including Harvard Business Review Modern Healthcare as a model for the hospital of the 21st century. And, most importantly of all, our care is better than ever: for the past five years, we’ve received top rankings for overall patient safety and quality of care from Vizient, Inc., formerly the University HealthSystem Consortium. Some might look at that progress and call it a mission accomplished. We call it a good start. With Your Support, There’s So Much More We Can Do This is one of the most remarkable times in NYU Langone’s history, but our vision for the future holds even more promise. We’re breaking down the barriers to high-quality healthcare by establishing more community-based clinics and practices. We’re committing $750 million to accelerate research breakthroughs in cancer, cardiovascular disease, and other epidemics. And we’re supporting the next generation of leaders in medicine by providing full-tuition scholarships for all MD degree students, regardless of financial need. When you give to the Excellence in Research, Education, and Care fund, you’re advancing our undeniable momentum—and helping us transform medicine for people in New York City and around the world. Your gift will help us meet the most critical needs and discover new avenues of research, education, and care. Support Excellence in Research, Education, and Care Help our specialists pioneer research, build important global programs, and deliver tailored, compassionate services to every patient and family in need. Cancer Patients Need a Cure and the Best Care Now For the more than 1.6 million Americans diagnosed with cancer every year, the best outcomes will depend on access to the latest treatments. Since the 1970s, five-year survival rates across all cancers have jumped from 49 to 68 percent because of innovations in care—the result of groundbreaking laboratory and clinical research. But a steady decline in federal research dollars means that crucial questions about how to eradicate cancer remain unanswered. Our Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center is one of the few institutions in the Northeast designated a National Cancer Institute cancer center, and our faculty and staff are poised to make great strides in research and care. In an unprecedented partnership, we’re collaborating with the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology on numerous cancer research projects. This global alliance will translate into enhanced detection, diagnosis, and treatment for oncology patients everywhere. We’re also focused on transforming lives today. More than 18 percent of our patients participate in therapeutic clinical trials and research studies—exceeding the national average of 4 percent—and, because of our new Cancer Clinical Trials Office, that number is steadily increasing. Clinical trials fast-track innovations from bench to bedside, while making sure everyone we care for has access to the most promising medical advances now. I believe that we’re going to cure cancer, if not within my lifetime, then within the lifetimes of young clinicians that we’re recruiting. We researchers are optimistic… we are at the dawn of a new era of personalized medicine. Benjamin Neel, MD Director, Perlmutter Cancer Center The generosity of our partners and friends has a tangible impact on the lives of those we serve and their families—and on the future of care. Ensure the Best Care for Those We Serve Today at Perlmutter Cancer Center Your gift will support our groundbreaking efforts to better understand and treat bone, joint, and connective tissue disorders and injuries. Great Orthopedic Care Is Now More Crucial Than Ever Musculoskeletal diseases and conditions are the leading cause of disability in the United States. One in four Americans experiences chronic back pain alone. And the full spectrum of orthopedic issues costs our nation a staggering $874 billion annually in treatment and lost wages. These health and financial burdens will only continue to grow as our population ages. Because of You, We’re Leading the Way We want every person with orthopedic problems to live a full life, free of disability and pain. With more than 150 years of leadership in the field, NYU Langone’s faculty and staff in the musculoskeletal arena practice truly integrated, personalized medicine by working collaboratively to fine-tune medications and treatment approaches in real time. In just the past three years, our caregivers and scientists translated research findings into clinical care that reduced patient readmission by half. We reached No. 4 nationally for orthopedics in ’s most recent “Best Hospitals” rankings, and we are among the top 10 recipients of National Institutes of Health funding in this area. We are also New York’s only hospital to rank among the top 10 nationally in every musculoskeletal subspecialty. It takes a whole host of people—not just surgeons—to provide truly comprehensive patient-centered orthopedic care—everyone from nurses to the security guard at the front door when you arrive for surgery. Joseph D. Zuckerman, MD Orthopedic Surgeon Your generosity will allow us to continue to excel in research, education, and care—for the good of our patients and patients worldwide. Support Orthopedic Care at NYU Langone Team NYU Langone is running the NYCRUNS Brooklyn Half Marathon for the people of Brooklyn. We’re fundraising for programs in the borough focused on cancer prevention, early detection, patient navigation, and more. I work in cancer research and support the mission of trying to raise funding for the field. I have seen many people who had their cancer caught too late and understand the importance of early detection. Eli W. In 2018, I was diagnosed with ovarian cancer and treated at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. I’m running with For All Who Fight, the nonprofit my sisters and I founded, to raise funds for the health system that helped me so much. Marguerite R. I’m running for my aunt, who was recently diagnosed with cancer. Elizabeth N. I am a native of Brooklyn and a social worker in NYU Langone’s Division of Gastroenterology. I want to help in any way I can to support cancer programs. Danielle S. I was supposed to run the NYC Marathon last year but had to defer due to a stress fracture injury in both shins. I am just getting back into running thanks to my physical therapist at NYU Langone. Alyssa M. As a physical therapist, I am always interested in opportunities to promote health and wellness—all for a good cause. This is a perfect chance to do both. Jonathan L. If you’re not running, you can still support our cause. Join these incredible advocates in creating a healthier future for the people of Brooklyn. Support Team NYU Langone Redefine Healthcare Support for Kids We’re transforming how children and their families are supported during medical treatment. Help Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care deliver innovative support services, family partnership programs, and safety and quality initiatives that advance the health and wellbeing of children and families at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. The Sala Difference in Action Meet Zemi, a five-year-old who was supported by the Sala child life team during her cancer fight. Safer Care Made Possible with Peer Coaching Learn how safety coaches help Sala ensure exceptional patient care practices. A Shared Commitment to Future Patients Our campaign chair highlights the importance of giving back to help children and families in need. New York Post Highlights the Power of Sala Institute Give to Our Greatest Need Ensure that every child and every family receives personalized, high-quality, safe care. A Guiding Light We partner with young patients, their families, and healthcare providers for hope and healing. Watch Other Ways to Donate You can support Sala Institute in many different ways including credit card , or see these instructions to donate by check, wire transfer, or donor advised fund. Sala is an array of people, services, resources, and knowledge that lets us enhance the medical care we give to children. Jason Fisher, MD Director, Children’s Surgical Services, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital See how friends like you make a difference for the kids and families we serve. of patients with complex and chronic illnesses benefit from Sala care 32K patient encounters by Sala child life specialists 100+ physicians-in-training completed pediatric resident communication curriculum 1 of 25 top children’s hospitals studying widespread health inequities Learn more about our work in the 2023 Sala Institute Impact Report Last month, my daughter had to go for another endoscopy, and the Sala team worked for weeks leading up to it to prepare her. Our thanks extend to all of those who are supporting Sala. Sara Fundraise for Sala Honor a Sala Professional Learn more about Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care > Support Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care NYU Langone Health welcomes all media opportunities and requests. Our interview and filming policies help to ensure the privacy and safety of our patients and to protect the interests and reputation of NYU Langone. A member of the media includes anyone engaged in the acquisition of news with the intent of disseminating it through legitimate and recognized mediums. Recognized mediums used to disseminate news and information include TV, radio, newspaper, magazine, books, documentary film/video productions, the internet, and various wireless delivery formats. Also included, but not limited to, are those supporting the press, including camera crews, set-up crews, lighting crews, makeup artists, and photographers. Learn more about our interview and filming policies below. Media Requests for Patient Information NYU Langone is committed to ensuring the privacy and safety of our patients, and this policy governs when a member of the media requests information about a patient. Purpose The purpose of this policy is to ensure the privacy and safety of our patients and comply with local, state, and federal laws relating to patient privacy as well as to ensure that if patient information is provided to the media, it is consistent with all other existing or future medical center policies. Guidelines The following guidelines will apply to all NYU Langone faculty and staff and to all members of the media engaged in the acquisition of news with the intent of disseminating it through legitimate and recognized mediums requesting information about a patient: Requests for patient information by a representative of the media must be made through the Office of Communications and Marketing by calling the Office of Communications and Marketing Monday through Friday between 9:00AM and 5:30PM at 212-404-3555 . Requests may also be made via email to . After-hours and weekend requests should also be directed to . A recorded message will give the phone number of the public relations manager on duty. General patient condition information may only be provided by the Office of Communications and Marketing, and then only within the limitations imposed by the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). HIPAA generally requires the patient or their personal representative to consent to disclosures. In order to obtain this information, a patient name is required. Medical conditions will be reported as follows: Good, Fair, Serious, Critical, or Undetermined. Stable is not a condition and should only be used to clarify a condition (e.g., patient is critical but vital signs are stable). In event of a large-scale disaster, we will attempt to provide non-specific information about patients brought to NYU Langone. The American Hospital Association recommends the following one-word descriptions of a patient's general condition: Undetermined: Patient awaiting physician assessment. Good: Vital signs are stable and within normal limits. Patient is conscious and comfortable. Indicators are excellent. Fair: Vital signs are stable and within normal limits. Patient is conscious but may be uncomfortable. Indicators are favorable. Serious: Vital signs may be unstable and not within normal limits. Patient is acutely ill. Indicators are questionable. Critical: Vital signs are unstable and not within normal limits. Patient may be unconscious. Indicators are unfavorable. Treated and released: Received treatment but not admitted. Treated and transferred: Received treatment. Transferred to a different facility. A patient name is required. Release of detailed information or information about minors requires written consent of the parent, guardian, or legal representative. NYU Langone’s privacy obligations do not end with a patient’s death. The same privacy rules apply after a patient has died. If consent has been obtained and the next of kin has been notified, NYU Langone may disclose that a patient is “deceased.” However, NYU Langone may not provide any information about the death, including date, time, or cause. Federal and state statutes place additional restrictions on psychiatric patients, those who are HIV positive and those who are undergoing treatment for drug or alcohol abuse. NYU Langone may not disclose any information concerning a patient who is undergoing treatment for these conditions, including any information about their presence at the medical center. Law enforcement officials, Administration for Child Services, and parents or guardians may ask that no information be released about a child. In such cases, communications officials cannot confirm or deny that a no-information patient is located at our facility, nor can we provide condition reports. Patient privacy rules apply even though information may be a matter of public record or public knowledge. Without express written consent by the patient or guardian, NYU Langone may not disclose protected health information to the media even though the same information may be found in public records or has been reported elsewhere. HIPAA generally requires the patient or their personal representative to consent to disclosures. In emergency situations, the hospital may not be able to obtain the patient’s consent because the patient is unconscious or incapable of giving consent. Accordingly, NYU Langone may not be able to disclose any information to the media in the immediate aftermath of an emergency because there has not been time to obtain the consent from the patient or the patient’s representative. Media Requests for Interviews, Filming, or Photography / Guidelines This policy governs when a member of the media will be granted permission to interview or film, videotape, or photograph any NYU Langone faculty or staff, on its campus or in any NYU Langone facility. NYU Langone’s permission is required to conduct media interviews, or film, videotape, film, or photograph any NYU Langone faculty or staff, on its campus, or in any NYU Langone facility. NYU Langone will consider reasonable requests for news-related, non-commercial interviews and shooting but reserves the right to deny permission if, for any reason, NYU Langone deems that the request is not in the best interest of NYU Langone or its patients. The purpose of this policy is to ensure the privacy and safety of our patients and to protect the interests and reputation of NYU Langone Health, as well as to ensure if permission is granted, any interview, filming, videotaping, or photography is consistent with all other existing or future NYU Langone policies. The following guidelines apply to all members of the media engaged in the acquisition of news with the intent of disseminating it through legitimate and recognized mediums requesting permission to conduct an interview, film, videotape, or photograph any NYU Langone faculty or staff or patient or in any NYU Langone facility: Requests for permission to conduct an interview, film, videotape, or photograph must be made through the Office of Communications and Marketing by calling the Office of Communications and Marketing Monday through Friday between 9:00AM and 5:30PM at Requests for permission to conduct an interview, film, videotape, or photograph must be made at least five (5) business days before proposed interview, filming, videotaping, or photographing. In the case of breaking news where a five (5) day lead time is not feasible, requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Requests for permission to conduct an interview, film, videotape, or photograph made directly to the subject of the interview, film, videotape, or photograph are in violation of these guidelines and will not be honored. Requests for permission to conduct an interview, film, videotape, or photograph that involve a patient, or personal health information about a patient: require a signed HIPAA consent form from the patient or their legal guardian, or in the case of a minor, a signed HIPAA consent from a parent or guardian, through the Office of Communications and Marketing; and approval from the patient’s physician that the patient’s condition or interest will not be jeopardized as a result of the interview, film, videotape, or photography. Members of the media: with signs or symptoms of a communicable disease(s) or who have tested positive for tuberculosis in the past year are prohibited from entering NYU Langone ORs and/or patient care areas. Communicable (infectious) diseases include those that can be transmitted from person-to-person by the respiratory route (e.g., during coughing, sneezing, talking) or by casual contact. Such diseases include, but are not limited to: tuberculosis, influenza, pertussis (“whooping cough”), chickenpox, and measles. Symptoms of communicable diseases include fever, chills, night sweats, cough, sore throat, runny nose, conjunctivitis (“pink eye”), vomiting, diarrhea, and a rash that is either known to be infectious or of an unknown/undiagnosed cause. who do not knowingly have a communicable disease(s) and who are free of signs and symptoms of communicable diseases are required to read and to sign a Medical Attestation Form verifying that they understand these restrictions and validating that they are without signs or symptoms of communicable disease at the time of their visit. Members of the media who refuse to read and sign the Medical Screening Attestation Form are prohibited from NYU Langone ORs and/or patient care areas. Members of the media must be accompanied at all times in any NYU Langone facility by a member of the NYU Langone Office of Communications and Marketing staff. NYU Langone reserves the right to refuse to grant permission for any reason, including but not limited to potential disruption of patient care, research, or student activities; damage to, or alteration of, medical center property; disruption of traffic or parking; or potential safety hazards, or if NYU Langone deems that the request is not in the best interests of NYU Langone or its patients. Members of the media in violation of this policy will be prohibited from entering NYU Langone and required to leave NYU Langone. Media Requests for Filming or Photography for Commercial or Entertainment Purposes / Guidelines From time to time, NYU Langone permits filming or photography for commercial or entertainment purposes by legitimate agencies or production companies to be conducted at its facilities. Examples of filming or photography for commercial or entertainment purposes include, but are not limited to: print or broadcast advertising commercials and movies. NYU Langone’s permission is required to conduct filming or photography for commercial or entertainment purposes on its campus or in any NYU Langone facility. NYU Langone will consider reasonable requests for filming or photography for commercial or entertainment purposes but reserves the right to a) charge for such use, b) require compliance with the guidelines below, and c) deny permission if, for any reason, the medical center deems that the request is not in the best interest of NYU Langone or its patients. The purpose of this policy is to protect the reputation of the NYU Langone Health brand and ensure the privacy and safety of our patients, as well as to ensure that if permission is granted to film or photograph in NYU Langone facilities for entertainment or commercial purposes the filming and photography is consistent with all other existing or future NYU Langone policies. The following guidelines will apply to all requests for filming or photography at NYU Langone facilities for entertainment or commercial purposes: Requests for permission to film or photograph at NYU Langone facilities for entertainment or commercial purposes must be submitted to the Office of Communications and Marketing. They can be reached Monday through Friday between 9:00AM and 5:30PM at Requests for permission to film or photograph at NYU Langone facilities for entertainment or commercial purposes must be made at least 10 business days before proposed filming or photography would occur. NYU Langone, at its discretion, may require information including, but not limited to, date, duration and hours of filming, number of people involved, and copy of final script in order to assess the feasibility of the request. NYU Langone reserves the right to refuse to grant permission to film or photograph at NYU Langone facilities for commercial or entertainment purposes for any reason, including but not limited to potential disruption of patient care, research, or student activities; damage to, or alteration of, NYU Langone property; disruption of traffic or parking; or potential safety hazards; or if NYU Langone deems such request not in the best interest of NYU Langone or its patients. If permission to film or photograph at NYU Langone for entertainment or commercial purposes is granted: Requesting organization must sign an NYU Langone film location agreement prior to the start of any filming or photography; A copy of the final script or storyboard must be submitted for approval prior to signing the Film Location Agreement; A Certificate of Insurance naming NYU Langone, officers, employees, and agents as additional insured for the days of the shoot must be provided at least 24 hours prior to the shoot. Proof of comprehensive general liability insurance, including personal injury and property damage, must also be included. The General Liability Insurance must come with a limit not less than $5 million and Workers Compensation Insurance must be set to New York statutory limits. Automobile Insurance with a limit not less than $1 million combined single limit must be secured for any vehicles used in conjunction with the production. The film-maker must provide evidence that they have secured the appropriate permits from New York City. Most areas of NYU Langone may be used for filming. However, any specific location is available on a case-by-case basis and must be approved prior to filming. Prior to filming, and at a minimum of ten days prior to the desired date of filming or photography, a representative of the production company must walk through the desired locations with a representative of the Office of Communications. NYU Langone reserves the right to assign at its discretion staff to assist said production company when issues relating to safety may apply and charge the company for those services, e.g., No production company electrician may plug into the medical center’s power unless supervised by a house electrician who will stay with the production company for the duration of the shoot. NYU Langone reserves the right to charge a fee for the use of its facilities for filming or photography for commercial or entertainment purposes and the associated fees are due in full on the day before the filming or photography begins. Permission to film does not include a license to use the NYU Langone name or the name of any of its constituent entities. No mention is to be made of, or recognition given to, NYU Langone or any of its entities unless specifically authorized by the Office of Communications and Marketing. Additional expenses associated with the filming or photography will be the responsibility of the requesting agency or production company. When working around or shooting within a hospital environment, the agency or production company will be expected to take appropriate precautions to ensure that filming does not interfere with hospital operations and patient care. In the event NYU Langone staff, assisting with the production, are called away to assist with a patient care emergency during production, NYU Langone will not be liable for any cost associated with the delay in production. Members of the agency or production company: Members of the agency or production company must be accompanied at all times while on campus or in any NYU Langone facility by a member of the NYU Langone Office of Communications and Marketing staff. Patient Requests to Film, Photograph, or Publicize This policy governs requests from patients to film, videotape, photograph, or otherwise publicize or have filmed, videotaped, or photographed any medical service or treatment they receive while at NYU Langone for personal or professional reasons. The purpose of this policy is to ensure the privacy and safety of our patients, and protect the interests and reputation of NYU Langone, as well as to ensure compliance with all other existing or future medical center policies. The following guidelines will apply to all requests from patients to film, videotape, photograph, or otherwise publicize or have filmed, videotaped, or photographed, any medical service or treatment they receive while at NYU Langone for personal or professional reasons: Patients are prohibited from filming, or having filmed, any medical service or treatment they receive while at NYU Langone for personal or professional reasons. Patients are prohibited from inviting representatives of the media to visit them while they are at NYU Langone for purposes of publicity without the express permission of the Office of Communications and Marketing. All such requests must be directed to the Office of Communications and Marketing consistent with the requirements of MEDIA POLICY #1 Media Requests for Interviews, Filming, Videotaping or Photography on the NYU Langone campus. As set forth in that policy, NYU Langone will consider reasonable requests for news-related, non-commercial interviews and shooting but reserves the right to deny permission if, for any reason, NYU Langone deems that the request is not in the best interest of NYU Langone or its patients. Patients are also prohibited from holding a press conference, or inviting representatives of the media to a press conference, at NYU Langone without the express permission of the Office of Communications and Marketing. NYU Langone may consider such requests and all such requests must be directed to the Office of Communications and Marketing consistent with the requirements of MEDIA POLICY #1 Media Requests for Interviews, Filming, Videotaping or Photography on NYU Langone's campus. As set forth in that policy, NYU Langone reserves the right to deny permission if, for any reason, NYU Langone deems that the request is not in the best interest of NYU Langone or its patients. We have locations in Manhattan. 646-825-6324 A urogynecologic disorder, also called a female pelvic disorder, refers to specific problems with the bladder or reproductive organs in women, including urinary incontinence , and recurrent urinary tract infections. If you are a woman with one of these or other urogynecologic conditions, specialists at NYU Langone’s Center for Female Pelvic Medicine offer a number of highly effective and minimally invasive treatments, emphasizing both quality of life and high-quality care. Our physicians have vast experience in treating women with pelvic and urologic disorders, and have made significant contributions to research and advances in the field. We recognize that no single treatment fits all women, and we specialize in providing innovative, individualized care. Our offices feature a full spectrum of state-of-the-art diagnostic and treatment services, many of which can be performed on an outpatient basis. We pride ourselves on offering compassionate and personalized treatment. Whether you are having a routine procedure or a complex operation, our staff is always available to answer any questions you may have and explain every step of your journey with us. At the Center for Female Pelvic Medicine, our high standard of medical and surgical care is matched by our thoughtful treatment decision-making process that takes your personal needs and preferences into account. Care for Postpartum Pelvic Floor Disorders Pelvic floor disorders such as complex vaginal lacerations, infections, urinary or bowel control problems, pain, or fistulas, are common after delivering a baby and often require treatment. Our multidisciplinary team of specialists in female pelvic medicine and reconstructive surgery focus on helping postpartum women with these conditions. After a thorough review of your medical history and a physical exam, we assess your symptoms and level of pain to determine an individualized treatment plan. We offer specialized bladder, bowel, and radiology testing, and provide surgery or other minor procedures that may be needed as part of your treatment. To help maintain your pelvic health, we provide individualized education and planning for future childbirth. When required, we also offer a comprehensive pelvic muscle strengthening program with specialized physical therapists. Second Opinions We meet with many women who are seeking a second medical opinion about a diagnosis or treatment plan. Our female medicine specialists may recommend a different course of treatment for you to consider or may confirm the findings of your regular doctor. Either way, discussing your care with one of our expert physicians can allow you to make a more informed decision. Our female pelvic medicine specialists have vast experience in providing customized medical and surgical care to every woman they see, tailoring their treatment approaches to fit each woman’s unique needs. Christina M. Escobar Nirit Rosenblum Valerie Shoichet PA Lauren E. Stewart Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Doctor Head & Neck Cancer Doctors Help People Look Better Ambitious Surgery Plan Helps Musician Regain Partial Hearing Restoring Functional Improvement Following Facial Paralysis Surgeons Resect Rare Facial Neuroma, Restore Facial Function NYU Langone Launches Facial Paralysis & Reanimation Center Adult Reconstructive Surgery Robotic Orthopedic Surgery Foot & Ankle Care Musculoskeletal Oncology Orthopedic Trauma & Fracture Pediatric Orthopedics Second Opinion Service Shoulder & Elbow Care Spine Care Sports Medicine & Sports Medicine Primary Care NYU Langone orthopedic surgeons specialize in the latest, cutting-edge, robotic and computer-assisted surgical techniques for hip and knee replacement procedures. In these procedures, evidence-based pain management and rapid recovery protocols are combined with robotic and computer-assisted surgical tools. Robotic tools make precise movements that preserve bone and tissue and often result in a faster recovery and less muscle and soft tissue damage. Computer-assisted surgery uses technology such as robots, accelerometers, gyroscopes, and pressure sensors, which help doctors properly position implants. Our focus on enhanced recovery and a personalized approach to pain management—that may include a combination of opioid and non-opioid pain relievers and topical medications—enables many of our patients to return home the same day of their robotic or computer-assisted surgery. Robotic Hip Replacement Surgery Our doctors use robotic hip replacement surgery to treat osteoarthritis, developmental hip dysplasia hip impingement syndrome , and conditions causing severe joint damage. The goal of the surgery is to relieve pain and improve mobility. The most important factor in hip replacement surgery, in terms of pain, function, and recovery, is surgical technique. Precise surgical techniques that limit soft tissue damage are key to a rapid recovery. Accurate bone surface preparation with customized biomechanical restoration of the hip determines the function, comfort, and longevity of your implant. Robotic surgical techniques allow surgeons to remove only as much bone as is necessary. The robot system also ensures that the new replacement parts are aligned at the correct angles, which vary with every patient. Hip replacement surgery requires a surgeon to remove damaged bone and cartilage and replace these with synthetic materials, which can affect limb length. Using robotic and computer-assisted tools helps restore your leg length and preserves your comfort and gait. Robotic Knee Replacement Surgery Total knee replacement or partial knee replacement is a common treatment for severe knee pain resulting from osteoarthritis osteonecrosis . Partial knee replacements are a less invasive alternative for people who have experienced damage to one area of their knee as a result of arthritis. Total or partial knee replacement surgery is a technically demanding surgery. Minor instability, common with traditional surgical techniques, has been recognized as a main source of patient dissatisfaction and early failure. Alignment and balance are the two main requirements for clinical success in knee replacement surgery. Proper alignment requires precise surgical planning and execution, such as those that robotic techniques deliver. Correct balancing with pressure sensors results in a natural-feeling joint that functions well during recreational sports and activities. Robotics, computer-assisted surgical tools, and pressure sensor technology deliver information our surgeons need during total and partial knee replacement surgery to ensure your walking weight is distributed evenly. NYU Langone experts have been key developers of these technologies and continue to work toward advancing this field, while training fellows and visiting surgeons in the safe adoption of these innovative techniques. Robotic and computer-assisted surgeries for bone and joint conditions take place at Robotic orthopedic surgery is performed by the following doctors: Matthew Hepinstall, MD , Co-Director Morteza Meftah, MD Patrick Meere, MD, Co-Director We have locations in Manhattan, and we offer virtual appointments. 646-987-3850 We provide care during pregnancy and treatment for all gynecologic conditions. At the Center for Midlife Health and Menopause, we help women manage their health and optimize their wellbeing during the transition. Our clinicians provide treatment and support for symptoms related to menopause, as well as education about its impact on your overall health. The menopause life stage starts with perimenopause, which usually begins in your 40s but can vary. The complete transition to menopause, defined as 12 months after a final menstrual period, happens over a decade or longer. The average age of menopause is 52. At the Center for Midlife Health and Menopause, housed in the state-of-the-art NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Center East 53rd Street, a hub for women’s health and wellness, we offer comprehensive and compassionate care during the menopause transition. We also provide treatment for induced menopause, in which the ovaries stop providing estrogen due to radiation therapy, certain drug treatments, or surgical removal. The Patient Experience During perimenopause, estrogen and progesterone levels become irregular. While these hormonal changes are completely normal, they can cause symptoms that vary in intensity and duration. Before your first visit, we ask you to fill out a detailed questionnaire to help us understand your symptoms and how the transition is affecting your everyday life. We ask about your experience with a variety of signs of the menopause transition, such as period changes, hot flushes, night sweats, sleep issues, difficulty concentrating, memory lapses, bone and joint issues, bladder and vaginal concerns, and changes in sexual health. The decrease in estrogen that accompanies menopause increases the risk of certain health conditions. We provide screening and guidance to help you reduce the risk of these conditions, which include osteoporosis , and urinary and vaginal issues. Your first visit is a 45-minute consultation, held either in person or through a virtual visit. During this session, we review your symptoms, discuss treatment options, and create a customized care plan. Follow-up appointments are scheduled as needed to ensure that your symptoms have been addressed. Treatment Options and Referrals Each treatment plan is customized to your specific symptoms. Potential therapies include hormonal and nonhormonal treatments as well as complementary therapies such as lifestyle and dietary interventions. We rely on the latest scientific research regarding hormone therapy and prescribe it when it is the best treatment option, and individualize our therapies to maximize your health and wellbeing. We also offer referrals to NYU Langone specialists for issues that often accompany menopause and are more likely to occur in midlife, including bone loss, , and pelvic floor disorders. In addition, our Creating Healthy Activity and Nutrition Goals for Empowering CHANGE program explains how diet, exercise, sleep, and other lifestyle choices can help you deal with perimenopausal and menopausal symptoms. Each of its six sessions lasts 45 minutes. Our program is led by Samantha M. Dunham, MD Laurie S. Jeffers, DNP Tracey J. Fein, MD Emily Friedman, NP , who are Certified Menopause Practitioners by the North American Menopause Society. To schedule an appointment, please call We are located in Manhattan and Brooklyn and on Long Island. 646-754-3106 At the Center for Fibroid Care, our doctors provide the most advanced and innovative treatments for fibroid disease. Uterine , which are noncancerous tumors, can cause heavy and prolonged periods, pelvic pain, and bladder symptoms. Fibroids can also impact sexual health and fertility. Many women experience fibroid symptoms for years, unaware that there are effective treatment options. Center for Fibroid Care Discussions Our team of experts hosts discussions on topics related to fibroids, including symptoms and treatment. Watch Our Fibroid Videos We recognize that fibroid disease can significantly affect many aspects of women’s lives. Our goal is to create an individualized care plan for each of our patients, understanding that there is no one-size-fits-all approach. We focus on your quality-of-life goals and preferences, addressing anemia and possible plans when providing you with options to minimize or remove fibroid disease. The team at the Center for Fibroid Care, located at Ambulatory Care Center East 53rd Street, provides personalized treatment that includes surgical and nonsurgical approaches. Our team believes in continuing to research this chronic and recurrent disease. We are conducting clinical outcome studies that look at lifestyle changes after surgery and their effects on fibroid recurrence, and the use of radiofrequency ablation and its effect on quality of life. We are also drafting best-practice scripts to help providers counsel patients effectively about fibroid disease. Our Approach to Fibroid Care We offer a multidisciplinary approach, bringing together expertise from various specialty areas, including surgeons, hematologists, interventional radiologists, obstetricians, fertility specialists, and nutritionists. We explain all treatment options, starting with medications and lifestyle choices. We also offer active surveillance for fibroid disease and follow you throughout your reproductive journey. When treatment with an interventional procedure is needed, we offer nonsurgical approaches , including radiofrequency ablation and uterine fibroid embolization to shrink fibroids, and surgical procedures , such as myomectomy and hysterectomy. Nearly all myomectomies and hysterectomies are performed by doctors who are experts in minimally invasive gynecologic surgery , which uses small incisions that result in less pain and quicker recovery time. Nonsurgical and surgical procedures all take place at NYU Langone Obstetrics and Gynecology Associates Fibroid Treatment and Fertility If you plan to become pregnant in the future, your doctor can discuss treatments for easing your symptoms, while also preserving—and in some cases improving—fertility. We can connect you with reproductive endocrinologists at the to discuss additional options, including egg freezing in vitro fertilization Schedule a Consultation We recommend all new patients schedule a telehealth consultation with our nurse practitioner, Holly O. Gorman, NP , by calling 646-754-3106 or scheduling online . At this first appointment, Mrs. Gorman talks with you about your health history, any fibroid-related symptoms, and your goals for treatment. Based on this information and your completed quality of life survey, she refers you to the appropriate specialists, who complete a full evaluation and develop an individualized treatment plan that addresses symptoms and supports your long-term goals. We now offer telehealth visits for patients who live in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Florida. Our team includes experts in gynecology, interventional radiology, nutrition, obstetrics, reproductive endocrinology, and hematology nutrition. Taraneh Shirazian Director, Center for Fibroid Care Holly O. Gorman NP Alice K. Tsai Shouk O. Mansour RD, CDE Elizabeth M. Morris Shannon M. DeVore Michelle R. Bennett Erika Banks Linda M. Nicoll ED Esra Demirel Kevin A. Espino Shadi Seraji 19 Treatment Relieves Fibroid Symptoms Patient Had for a Decade Years of Fibroid Pain Come to an End with One Procedure Fibroids: Six Symptoms You Don’t Have to Live With New Center Tackles Myths About Fibroids What to Know About Living with Uterine Fibroids Woman Has Watermelon-Sized Uterine Fibroid Removed At NYU Langone, our certified midwives guide patients through every stage of their pregnancy journey and also provide routine gynecologic care. Our certified midwives provide routine gynecologic treatment and care before, during, and after pregnancy. Meet Our Midwives What Do Midwives Do? Midwives are board-certified healthcare providers who received a graduate degree in midwifery. They provide care through healthy, uncomplicated pregnancies and can provide all standard gynecologic care. They work alongside our obstetrician–gynecologists and maternal–fetal medicine specialists, who provide high-risk pregnancy care and can perform surgeries such as a cesarean birth and hysterectomy. Pregnancy Care from Midwives Our midwives provide care before, during, and after pregnancy, including childbirth. Midwives support and believe in the natural, physiologic process of pregnancy, labor and birth. We view pregnancy as a time to get to know yourself and your body better and to be educated and empowered through this incredible journey. Your midwife works with you on your birth plan, helping to define your ideal childbirth experience. For some people this includes minimal intervention in the childbirth process, such as not inducing labor when not medically necessary or providing medical pain management only when desired. We offer wireless fetal monitoring so you can walk around and change positions while in labor. We also aim to make you as comfortable as possible by allowing you to eat as needed and limiting physical exams as much as possible during the process. We also support and are comfortable delivering patients in various positions such as hands and knees, squatting, etc. Our certified midwives work together to ensure all patients receive the highest level of gynecologic and pregnancy care. In pregnancy, our certified midwives provide holistic, evidence-based care and aim to make patients as comfortable as possible. They work alongside our obstetrician–gynecologists and maternal–fetal medicine specialists, who provide high-risk pregnancy care and can perform surgeries such as a cesarean birth and hysterectomy. Our certified midwives educate and empower women of all ages, from adolescence to those in their post-reproductive years. Midwives attend births at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital and NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn. They work in tandem with the rest of the labor and delivery team, which includes obstetricians and maternal–fetal medicine specialists, to ensure you have access to the highest level of patient care. We utilize our high-risk providers when complications arise during prenatal care and during labor and birth. If complications arise prenatally, we can continue to care for you in a collaborative manner with the high-risk team but sometimes there are complications that require us to transfer your care entirely. In the labor setting, our physician colleagues are immediately available in the case where you may need a cesarean section or operative vaginal delivery (vacuum or forceps). Gynecologic Care from Midwives Midwives also provide all routine gynecologic care for women of all ages, from adolescence to those in their postreproductive years. This includes well visits, pelvic exams, and placement of long-acting reversible contraceptives such as intrauterine devices. Midwives also diagnose and treat gynecologic conditions, provide preventive care and screenings for cancer and sexually transmitted infections. NYU Langone’s fertility specialists are leaders in the field of reproductive endocrinology, providing the latest and most innovative treatment options to help individuals and couples plan for a family, either now or in the future. Treatment starts with using the most advanced testing to evaluate reproductive health and pinpoint the cause of infertility in men women . This includes hormone and ovarian reserve testing, pelvic exam, ultrasound, testing to determine the risk of passing on a genetic condition, and sonohysterogram, which examines the health of the fallopian tubes. Excellence in Fertility Preservation We are leaders in fertility preservation, which allows both eggs and embryos to be stored for future use, and in vitro fertilization, which helps people who have had difficulty conceiving through traditional methods achieve a healthy pregnancy. NYU Langone embryologists ensure the health and safety of sperm, eggs, and embryos before in vitro fertilization. We pioneered preimplantation genetic diagnosis and screening, which looks for abnormalities in an embryo that could affect development. Preimplantation genetic testing reduces the risk of miscarriage and increases the chance of a successful pregnancy. For people who lack viable eggs or sperm or who cannot carry a pregnancy, we offer several treatment options, including donor eggs, donor sperm, and gestational carriers. These treatment options can assist lesbian, gay, bisexual, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ+) individuals or couples achieve their goal of starting or expanding their families. Each person’s circumstance is unique, and we work with you to determine the fertility treatment path best suited to your needs. This includes women who wish to freeze eggs for use later in life, perhaps because they are receiving treatment for cancer or other conditions that can affect fertility. Fertility treatment is available at the NYU Langone Fertility Center—NoMad , which has locations in Brooklyn and on Long Island. NYU Langone’s doctors are leaders in the treatment of gynecologic cancer and offer the most sophisticated diagnostic tools and advanced surgical approaches to achieve the best outcomes. , our gynecologic oncologists specialize in robotic-assisted surgery, minimally invasive surgery, and complex surgical plans to remove more advanced cancers. We also specialize in surgery that removes cancer while preserving a woman’s fertility. Dr. Leslie R. Boyd is a gynecologic oncologist who provides treatment for cancers of the reproductive tract, including endometrial, ovarian, and cervical cancer. Our doctors work with imaging specialists, genetic counselors, reproductive medicine specialists, radiation oncologists, and rehabilitation specialists to care for women with gynecologic cancers, including the following: , also called uterine cancer gestational trophoblastic neoplasia, a rarely occurring tumor that can form in the uterus during pregnancy ovarian and fallopian tube cancer peritoneal cancer, which develops in a thin layer of tissue lining the inside of the abdomen vaginal cancer vulvar cancer Advanced Approaches to Diagnosis We use the latest imaging technology and diagnostic testing to help guide our surgical, medical, and radiation therapy plans. We have dedicated gynecologic radiologists reading our ; they image the ovaries and fallopian tubes, cervix, uterus, and other areas of the pelvis to find signs of gynecologic cancer. Our pathologists are highly skilled at detecting precancerous and cancerous changes in biopsy tissue and can help determine the risk of a tumor growing and spreading. This information guides personalized treatment plans for each patient. Sophisticated Surgical Care and Treatment Expertise Our gynecologic oncologists are experts in minimally invasive surgery, including robotic-assisted procedures , to remove uterine, ovarian, fallopian, and peritoneal tumors, and some cervical cancers. Robotic-assisted surgery typically results in smaller scars, less postoperative bleeding, and a shorter healing time. Fertility-sparing surgery and surgical procedures to reduce the risk of some gynecologic cancers are also offered by our experts. Our gynecologic oncologists may prescribe chemotherapy and other medications as part of an overall treatment plan. Highly targeted radiation therapy that destroys cancer cells and minimizes treatment side effects may also be beneficial, depending on the type of cancer. Screening, Prevention, and Risk-Reduction Strategies Our doctors offer screening programs for some forms of gynecologic cancer to help diagnose the condition early, when treatment is most effective. We also provide prevention and risk-reduction strategies to help deter the development of cancer. We offer genetic testing and counseling to help women understand their risk of developing ovarian cancer. Our gynecologic oncologists and genetic counselors are available to guide women through their ovarian cancer screening risk-reduction options screening programs prevention strategies , and treatments for precancerous conditions of the cervix are also available. Our gynecologic oncologists refer patients to services such as pelvic rehabilitation and occupational and physical therapy, during and after treatment, to help maintain or regain muscle tone and strength. Palliative care specialists, massage and Reiki therapists, acupuncturists, and nutritionists can also help people feel better during and after treatment. One-on-one psychological counseling and support groups are also available. Access to Clinical Trials Our patients have access to at Perlmutter Cancer Center. We are one of the leading clinical trial teams in the country for gynecologic cancers. We offer numerous studies of ovarian, endometrial, and cervical cancer treatments, including new targeted medications. We are also a leader in clinical trials for ovarian cancer prevention in women who are at high risk to develop cancer. From your first prenatal visit to follow-up care after delivery, NYU Langone’s obstetricians and midwives are committed to providing the safest patient-centered and childbirth experience for you and your baby, while also providing emotional and psychological support through this eventful time in your life. After childbirth, babies and new parents room together until both can be discharged safely, which is a minimum of 24 hours after delivery. Each year, more than 15,000 babies are born at . We are certified by The Joint Commission for our excellence in advanced perinatal care, which is the period prior, during, and after childbirth. In addition, our hospitals have achieved Baby-Friendly status in recognition of our commitment to breastfeeding and supporting parent–baby bonding after birth. Prenatal Care Your obstetrician or midwife will help you prepare for pregnancy by recommending lifestyle changes, such as encouraging exercise and a healthy diet, helping you quit smoking , and screening for sexually transmitted diseases and genetic conditions. We also review how certain health conditions, including lupus , and some orthopedic conditions, could affect pregnancy, and provide referrals to specialists as needed. If you have been having difficulty conceiving, we can refer you to our fertility experts During pregnancy, our team monitors your and your baby’s health through regular office visits and diagnostic testing. This includes ultrasound exams and fetal monitoring to track your baby’s growth and development, and genetic testing for conditions that could affect the pregnancy. To help you prepare for your baby, we offer parent education classes and support groups on pregnancy; childbirth; breastfeeding; and newborn, infant, and toddler parenting. We can also connect you with social work services as needed. Certain preexisting conditions or complications that develop during pregnancy can require specialized medical care. NYU Langone’s are obstetrician–gynecologists with advanced training in managing the health and wellbeing of the mother and baby during a high-risk pregnancy. We provide advanced fetal imaging that detects congenital defects, including , cleft lip and palate, kidney abnormalities, and placenta abnormalities. Referral to our is available as appropriate. We encourage all expectant patients to develop a birth plan , which outlines their preferences for labor and delivery, including who will accompany you during labor, how you want to manage pain, and any newborn care requests. Our goal is to help you have the best possible birth experience in the safest environment. Our skilled labor and delivery teams include highly experienced physicians who serve as patient safety officers, supporting your obstetrician or midwife by providing around-the-clock monitoring of all people in labor to ensure the safest deliveries and best outcomes. Infants who need the most advanced care are brought to the NICU at Tisch Hospital , which is a state-designated Regional Perinatal Center equipped to provide the highest level of newborn care. Care for babies born prematurely or with low birth weight is also provided at the Childbirth takes place in our labor and delivery suites, and doulas and other childbirth partners are invited to join in accordance with our . Our anesthesiologists are available at all times to provide several options for pain relief . These include medications that can be delivered through an IV in your arm or spinal epidural anesthesia, as well as relaxation techniques such as massage and taking a shower. We guide women through vaginal birth, and perform cesarean birth when medically necessary. Our skilled labor and delivery teams can also support vaginal birth after cesarean section (VBAC) delivery. We encourage skin-to-skin contact immediately after birth, and our lactation consultants provide breastfeeding or chestfeeding education and support. Postnatal Care After delivery, your baby stays in your room with you to encourage parent–baby bonding. We limit your hospital stay so that you can go home as soon as is medically safe for you and your baby, which is at a minimum 24 hours after delivery. A follow-up visit with your doctor or midwife is then scheduled for several weeks after delivery. If you experience symptoms of postpartum depression, including irritability, anxiety, and difficulty bonding with your baby, we can refer you to mental health experts who can help. At NYU Langone, we believe all our patients deserve access to safe, high-quality reproductive healthcare. Our providers offer compassionate and nonjudgmental counseling and care for people facing decisions about their family building and reproductive health, including abortion services, abnormal early pregnancy and miscarriage management, and birth control for patients with complicated medical issues or poor experiences with birth control in the past. To make an appointment with one of our family planning doctors, call , or contact one of our providers of abortion services directly. Schedule Online In all these circumstances and more, our family planning team is ready to provide supportive, skilled reproductive healthcare. Our team includes doctors who are double board-certified in both obstetrics and gynecology and complex family planning. No matter what your reproductive health goals may be, we are ready to help you understand all of your options and to provide confidential, empathetic, and evidence-based care. Abortion Care Our clinicians are committed to providing safe and effective abortion care. We offer both medication and procedural abortions; for those choosing procedural abortions, we also offer a range of safe anesthesia options. Our goal is to provide empathetic, patient-centered medical care that prioritizes each person’s needs. During their appointment, patients review their medical history with a provider, have a brief, basic ultrasound, and receive thorough counseling on their options for abortion care. We offer medication abortion through 11 weeks of pregnancy. Patients who choose a medication abortion will receive the medications during the same clinic appointment, and will also receive detailed instructions from the provider about how to use the medications. After a medication abortion, patients have a follow-up appointment within two weeks, either in the clinic or via a video doctor visit A procedural abortion—also called a uterine aspiration, suction aspiration, dilation and curettage, or dilation and evacuation—is offered for patients through 24 weeks of pregnancy. Through 10 weeks of pregnancy, patients can choose to have the procedure during the same clinic appointment, and have it performed with local anesthesia alone. Through 24 weeks of pregnancy, they can have the procedure with deep sedation as soon as the day after the appointment. Patients and providers work together to determine the best kind of procedure and anesthesia, depending on each patient’s preferences, the duration of the pregnancy, and their medical history. New patients can make an appointment for abortion care by either scheduling a visit with one of our abortion providers Early Pregnancy Complications and Miscarriage Management Complications in early pregnancy, such as cramping or bleeding, can be difficult to manage, especially for patients who have not yet connected with a prenatal care provider. Our clinicians help diagnose and manage these early pregnancy complications and offer sensitive counseling and comprehensive management options in case of early pregnancy loss (miscarriage). Our clinicians also provide expert management for patients with rarer abnormal pregnancies, such as ectopic pregnancies or molar pregnancies. Complex Contraception Guidance People who have complex medical histories or who have had past difficulties with contraception may need clinicians’ support to find a birth control option that is safe and effective for them. Our clinicians review your medical history as well as your preferences and past experiences to help you decide what birth control method works best for you. Sexually Transmitted Diseases We provide screening, counseling, diagnosis, and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases for people as part of their gynecologic care. Our team can also offer pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) medication for HIV prevention. At NYU Langone, we offer tailored treatment plans and support services to women with complex gynecologic conditions, which require a high level of expertise to diagnose and a team of specialists to manage. Our team includes internationally recognized gynecologic surgeons, who perform complex procedures, including 1,000 robotic-assisted surgeries each year, and who are among the most experienced in the country. Our surgeons collaborate with experts in fertility services , nutrition, mental health, and physical therapy to help manage these conditions: chronic adenomyosis, which is when the uterine lining grows into the muscular wall of the uterus adenomyomas—masses in the uterine lining that result from adenomyosis We offer the latest and most-advanced treatments, including fertility-preserving options for women with fibroids. Our patients also have access to the newest therapies through our research and clinical trials. Each year our surgeons perform more than 1,000 robotic-assisted surgeries, which allow for smaller incisions, less pain, and quicker recovery time. Personalized Care for Endometriosis and Pelvic Pain A team of healthcare providers at the takes an integrative care approach to managing endometriosis. Our specialists are also available to treat the many other causes of chronic pelvic pain. Our team includes highly trained gynecologic surgeons who specialize in minimally invasive techniques, including robotic-assisted surgery, to help reduce postoperative pain, infection rates, and healing time. Pelvic imaging specialists, nutritionists, complementary medicine specialists, fertility doctors, psychologists, sexual health therapists, pain management specialists, and pelvic floor physical therapists are also part of the care team. Together, they create personalized treatment plans tailored to each patient’s health goals. Uterine-Preserving Treatments for Fibroids When treating fibroids, adenomyosis, or adenomyomas, our doctors, including specialists from NYU Langone’s , talk with you about options for preserving the uterus based on your care preferences and plans for future pregnancy. This can include medication to alleviate symptoms, as well as minimally invasive approaches to remove or reduce these growths. Noninvasive approaches to care may include medication for fibroids to relieve symptoms such as pain and heavy menstrual bleeding. Some of these same medications, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and oral contraceptives, may be used to alleviate pain and bleeding caused by adenomyosis and adenomyomas. Robotic-Assisted Surgery If symptoms caused by fibroids don’t improve, our doctors may recommend a robotic-assisted myomectomy or another minimally invasive surgical approach to remove the growths. Such methods leave the uterus intact. Embolization and Ablation Gynecologic surgeons also work with interventional radiologists to provide minimally invasive procedures such as uterine artery embolization to shrink fibroids and to treat adenomyosis and adenomyomas. Our specialists offer radiofrequency ablation (RFA), delivered through the cervix, to destroy fibroids with heat from high-energy electromagnetic waves. Our doctors may use RFA delivered through the peritoneum, a layer of tissue that covers the pelvic area, to treat adenomyosis and adenomyomas. Doctors may also combine one of these ablative procedures to shrink large fibroids and then remove any remaining tissue with minimally invasive robotic surgery. Access to Clinical Studies Women with complex gynecologic conditions have access to ongoing clinical studies at NYU Langone. Our doctors conduct research on safer and less painful surgical procedures that help patients to return to their daily activities more quickly than conventional open surgery. We are also investigating new pain relief medications for chronic pelvic pain. 646-754-2222 Our Clinical Genetic Services Preparing for Your Genetic Evaluation Our Genetic Counselors At NYU Langone’s Clinical Genetic Services, we offer individualized evaluations, genetic counseling, and testing. Our clinical services include complete genetic evaluations for children and adults. Our goal is to provide you with genetic information that presents choices and minimizes uncertainty, empowering you to make decisions that are most beneficial for you. Although we offer specific recommendations about your medical care, we encourage you to make choices that are appropriate for you based on your cultural background and personal experience. We offer genetic counseling, evaluation, and testing for children and adults. We use a team approach in which we consult you, as well as one another, when making decisions. includes highly experienced clinical geneticists and genetic counselors who are trained to provide you with clinical information as well as referrals to other specialists. Your Evaluation A genetic evaluation includes meeting with either a medical geneticist or a genetic counselor, or both. We gather a detailed medical and family history during your appointment , provide a physical examination if needed, and discuss your options for genetic testing. Services for Children When evaluating your child for a genetic condition, we believe that parents are an integral part of the healthcare team. We want to know your thoughts about the causes of your child’s condition and discuss whether or not testing or treatment options may influence future childbearing decisions. We are supportive of your decision-making process based on your individual needs, philosophies, and beliefs. Our services for children are provided through Our services continue to grow with the increasing availability of new genetic tests and treatments. Our group customizes and explains the scientific details of your genetic evaluation, so you can be a fully informed participant in healthcare for yourself and your child. Affiliated Programs and Services Our experts provide the best care possible for children with conditions ranging from minor illnesses to complex, more serious conditions. Center for Children We offer outpatient care to children of all ages with musculoskeletal and neurological conditions. Stephen D. Hassenfeld Children’s Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders We combine the most advanced medical treatments with psychosocial and emotional support services for young patients and their families. Fink Children's Ambulatory Center We bring together a team of experts who specialize in caring for children, including cardiologists, cardiovascular surgeons, nephrologists, gastroenterologists, orthopedic oncologists, and others. Our researchers share a goal of understanding how cancer develops at the molecular level, and how to harness that knowledge to reduce the risk of cancer and provide the best treatments. Our program provides complete diagnosis and treatment plans for people with inherited cardiovascular conditions. Neurogenetics Program We specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of inherited diseases of the nervous system. Our dedicated medical, behavioral, and surgical specialists work together to provide individualized evaluation and care for patients and families with these genetic disorders. Child Study Center We aim to advance the understanding of the causes of child and adolescent psychiatric disorders and provide individualized treatments. At NYU Langone, we provide comprehensive gynecologic care and services to support your health and wellbeing at every stage of life, from annual wellness exams to family planning services to managing menopausal symptoms. We welcome people of all gender identities and expressions who need obstetric and gynecologic care. Annual Wellness Exams Our doctors and provide annual wellness exams to screen for gynecologic and breast cancers and gynecologic conditions that may affect reproductive and sexual health. During this visit, we can answer your questions and address any health concerns, including family planning, cancer prevention and screening, and fertility issues. This annual exam may include a Pap test to screen for precancerous changes to the cervix and cervical cancer. Our providers may also perform a human papillomavirus (HPV) test, which helps determine whether you are at high risk for developing cervical cancer. Our providers can also review recommendations for getting an HPV vaccine , which can prevent cervical cancer. Other services may include a clinical breast exam, a mammogram referral, or another breast cancer screening test , depending on your age, family history, and other individual risk factors. We can also help you make lifestyle changes as part of preventive care. This can include counseling in nutrition and weight loss, and referrals to programs such as our and the NYU Langone smoking cessation program. Your annual visit is tailored to you. Our team takes the time to learn about your personal and family history so they can make individualized recommendations and create personalized treatment plans. We are eager to partner with you in your care. Treatment for Menstrual Disorders Painful and irregular menstruation is one of the most common health problems that our providers manage. We offer medical workups that may include taking a full health history, conducting blood work, and ordering imaging tests. We provide gynecologic care for women at every stage of life, from adolescence to menopause. We work with you to develop your treatment plan, which may include lifestyle changes such as diet and exercise to alleviate symptoms, over-the-counter and prescription medications to regulate menstrual cycles, or surgery and integrative care. Our clinicians are skilled in management of , such as Our providers value talking with you about your family planning preferences. We offer compassionate counseling and care for people making decisions about building their family and about reproductive health. Our providers diagnose early pregnancy complications. We also offer abortion services and manage early pregnancy loss. We test for sexually transmitted diseases, and we help people who have complex medical histories or who have had past difficulties with contraception find safe, effective birth control. Sexual and Vulvar Health Services We provide testing for sexually transmitted infections, such as , gonorrhea, and chlamydia. Our providers can talk about ways to prevent HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases and how to discuss these issues with sexual partners. Our providers can also help manage sexual dysfunction, including painful intercourse. We may refer you to pelvic floor physical therapy or other treatments to improve sexual function, including hormone therapy and medications, and surgical management. Through our Center for Vulvar Health at , we provide advanced treatment for skin conditions that affect the vulva. These include chronic itching or irritation, vulvar pain, and skin conditions such as lichen sclerosus, lichen simplex chronicus, and lichen planus. Menopause Management Our doctors diagnose and treat symptoms of perimenopause, such as hot flashes, night sweats, and fatigue, which can occur months to years before , the absence of a menstrual period for a year. Therapies to alleviate perimenopause symptoms may include lifestyle changes such as weight loss or smoking cessation, supportive measures like psychological counseling, and such as hormone replacement therapy and serotonin reuptake inhibitors. may also be recommended, because perimenopause is a sign of a lower estrogen level, which can lead to bone loss. Specialized care for the menopause transition is provided through our Center for Midlife Health and Menopause Surgical Innovation at the Aortic Center , our doctors are innovators in aortic surgery and use the latest techniques to ensure you receive the highest-quality care. Our experts specialize in surgery for all types of aortic aneurysm , a bulge in the aortic wall that can lead to serious and sometimes life-threatening , or rupture. We also surgically manage and other aortic conditions. Our doctors aim to preserve the aortic valve whenever possible, rather than replacing it with an artificial one. Natural valve tissue tends to last longer than an artificial valve, making preservation especially beneficial to younger patients. Experts in Aortic Aneurysm Surgery Our doctors specialize in repairing aortic aneurysms that can be especially dangerous. These include aortic root, aortic arch, and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. Aortic Root Aneurysm Repair The aortic root is closest to the heart. In addition to the risk of aortic dissection, an aneurysm on the aortic root can also damage the aortic valve. We are one of the top centers with expertise in repairing aneurysms in the aortic root without aortic valve replacement, a procedure known as valve-sparing aortic root replacement Aortic Arch Aneurysm Repair An aortic arch aneurysm occurs in the section where the artery curves up and away from the heart. The aortic arch connects to vessels that supply blood to the head and arms. Aortic arch aneurysms usually require surgery to replace the arch and vessels, or a hybrid procedure that includes open surgery followed by a stent graft—a fabric-covered mesh tube that seals and strengthens the wall of the aorta, allowing the aneurysm to shrink. The stent is placed with a minimally invasive procedure known as endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) . We also perform aneurysm repair in patients who previously had this surgery at another institution but who had poor results. Thoracoabdominal Aneurysm Repair A thoracoabdominal aneurysm occurs in the portion of the aorta that extends from the chest and abdomen, where numerous vessels supply blood to the liver, kidneys, intestines, and spine. When this portion of the aorta needs to be repaired or replaced, there is a risk of reduced blood flow to these areas. Our surgeons have extensive experience in the techniques used to create bypasses that maintain blood flow to these organs and the spine. They may use EVAR to shore up the aorta, while also allowing blood to flow through its connected veins and to vital organs. The Latest Approaches to Aortic Dissection Our expertise in the care of complex aortic aneurysms translates to treatment for all types of aortic dissection . We use minimally invasive endovascular approaches, open surgery , and a hybrid of the two to create treatment strategies for each patient’s individual diagnosis. Leaders in Aortic Valve Disease Surgery For aortic valve disease, our surgeons may recommend repairing the aortic valve to preserve your own tissue. If you are not a candidate for an aortic valve repair, we offer methods of aortic valve replacement. The Ross Procedure We are one of the leading centers in New York City to offer the Ross procedure, an innovative approach to aortic valve disease that is particularly suited for young, active people. The Ross procedure relies on the body’s natural tissue to repair the aortic valve. It is a durable, long-term option for valve replacement that avoids dependence on blood thinners, which are needed when an artificial valve is used. Aortic Valve Replacement Surgery If a procedure using natural tissue is not an option for you, our doctors may offer open . Our surgeons may use a bioprosthetic valve, which is made from either a cow (bovine) or pig (porcine) tissue, or a mechanical valve, made of metal. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement We also offer , also known as TAVR, a minimally invasive approach to aortic valve disease. Advanced Surgical Facilities offers single-bed inpatient rooms, providing more comfort and privacy for patients. It is one of the most digitally integrated and sophisticated inpatient facilities in the country, designed to maximize the level of care for each patient. Event Details Thank you for organizing an event to support NYU Langone! Please submit the event details below. If you have any questions, please contact Step of 20% Host Information Name Title First Last Address Street Address Address Line 2 City State / Province / Region ZIP / Postal Code Country Please tell us about your relationship with NYU Langone Health. Event Information Event Name Event Type Event Date MM slash DD slash YYYY Rain date, if applicable Venue Name Venue Address Was this event held previously? Fundraising Fundraising goal amount ($) Estimate Expenses ($) Estimated Donations ($) Event Promotion How do you plan to fundraise for your event? Ticket sales Outright donation Sponsorships Raffles Other How will you promote your event? Invitation Flyers Is this event invitation only or open to the public? Event Agreement Please read and confirm your consent to the policy and community event agreement by checking the box below. (Required) I agree to the privacy policy. Event Host • You agree to be responsible for the operation of the event, including all costs and expenses associated with the event, and to conduct the event in a safe, lawful, and professional manner. • You may use the name of NYU Langone Health only to inform the public about your event. • You are responsible for providing NYU Langone Health with the names and addresses of donors who make cash donations (if they wish to be acknowledged by NYU Langone Health) and a full description of any items donated for silent/ live auctions. • Post-event recaps need to be submitted to NYU Langone Health at CommunityGiving@nyulangone.org for evaluation with a complete accounting of funds collected and related expenses. • Approval for the event is specific to dates and locations listed on the pre-event form. Annual events must submit a new form each year. • Under no circumstances may an event associate itself with a tobacco-related company or product or any other vendor that would not be an appropriate representation of NYU Langone Health. Event Planning • You are responsible for the planning, marketing, operation, and cost of the event. • You agree that out-of-pocket costs for the event will not exceed more than 20% of total funds raised. • You agree to submit to NYU Langone Health drafts of all the event materials for review by NYU Langone Health to CommunityGiving@nyulangone.org. • You agree to conduct the event in a safe manner and comply with all applicable laws. For example, drawings, sweepstakes, sales of products by businesses with a promise to donate a portion of the proceeds, and other similar activities are legally regulated and may require permits and registrations. You also might be required to collect and remit sales tax in certain circumstances on some auction sales. • If the host chooses to serve alcohol, they are solely responsible for ensuring compliance with all laws and regulations, and assume all liability for any form of negligence that may arise from the consumption of alcohol. • If applicable, the host must obtain its own liability insurance to cover the event. NYU Langone Health will not insure the event and the organizer must obtain all insurance, including premise liability and worker’s compensation. • You agree to pay over the proceeds from the event to NYU Langone Health. • You will keep accurate financial records of the event and make them available to NYU Langone Health. • You agree that all event promotional materials will include the following information in a clear and uniform format: (i) any flat donation (e.g., the exact percentage of the retail purchase price or the fixed dollar amount per purchase) that will be donated to NYU Langone Health, (ii) any limits (maximum or minimum) on the total amount to be donated to NYU Langone Health, (iii) whether any consumer action is required to trigger a donation, and (iv) the start and end dates of the event. You shall be responsible for handling all monies in connection with the event. NYU Langone Health Abilities To support your event, NYU Langone Health will: • Provide gift receipts for direct contributions made to NYU Langone Health; • Provide informational brochures or fact sheets about our programs and services for the event; • Authorize use of NYU Langone’s name upon review and approval of the event materials; • Provide written tax receipts to donors who make direct contributions to NYU Langone Health or make contributions through NYU Langone’s online giving platform dedicated to your event. Unfortunately, NYU Langone Health is unable to: • Release names of patients, former patients, donors, trustees, volunteers, employees, physicians or mailing lists for any purposes including event invitations; • Offer funding or reimbursement for expenses related to the event; • Create or provide event invitations; • Permit the use of the NYU Langone logo; • Promote the event through NYU Langone publications and media outlets including social media and email; • Take responsibility for selling tickets to the event and/or promoting the event; Guarantee staff, volunteer or patient/family attendance at the event; • Provide auction items or create and maintain an online silent auction including storage and safeguarding of auction items. NYU Langone Health reserves the right to: • Decline any proposed event. • Approve all uses of its name and revoke its permission at any time at its sole discretion. • Return donations if the way that the donation was received unlawfully or otherwise unacceptable to NYU Langone Health (e.g. donations from gambling events). • Use any videos or photographs sent by you for its general marketing purposes without cost, credit, or attribution to the organizer. You agree that sending us your videos and photos sent to us constitutes permission for NYU Langone Health to use them. • Use event information through all media and online channels, including but not limited to Facebook, Twitter, and the philanthropic giving site. Sala Institute Ways to Donate TO DONATE BY CHECK Please make your check out to “NYU Langone Health” and kindly mail it to the address below along with “Sala” in the memo line: Attn: Gift Administration TO DONATE BY DONOR ADVISED FUND (DAF) To recommend a grant to NYU Langone Health from your donor advised fund, please contact your sponsoring organization directly and provide them with the following EIN for NYU Langone Hospitals: 13-3971298. Please indicate 1 Park Avenue, 9th Floor, New York, NY 10016 as the mailing address and be sure to indicate “Sala” as the gift purpose. TO DONATE BY WIRE Wire transfer for gifts of cash to NYU Langone Hospitals should be sent to the following with “Sala” identified as the gift purpose: Bank: Bank of America 100 West 33rd Street New York, New York 10001 ABA/ROUTING#: 0260‐0959‐3 OR SWIFT: bofaus3n NAME OF ACCT.: New York University Account #: 4834478066 FOR ACH ONLY: ABA/ROUTING#: 021000322 Either you or your physician can request a consultation with a doctor at NYU Langone’s by calling us at . We offer a range of tests that can diagnose early heart disease and assess the risk factors that predispose a person to heart disease and The tests we offer include the following: 24-Hour Blood Pressure Monitoring Blood pressure readings taken during an office visit may be abnormally high—“white coat” hypertension—or falsely low, called masked hypertension. To determine whether patients have high blood pressure and require treatment, we provide them with a portable device that records their blood pressure over a 24-hour period. Advanced Lipid Profile An advanced lipid profile test gives us a more accurate picture of your risk for cardiovascular disease than the standard lipid profile test taken during an annual physical. With an advanced lipid profile test, we can measure the individual particle size and numbers that make up LDL (bad) and HDL (good) cholesterol, which can better predict your risk for heart disease and stroke. This test may be particularly beneficial for people already on statins, those with or prediabetes, and for people with a family history of early heart disease or stroke. Ankle-Brachial Index The ankle-brachial index test measures the blood pressure in the arm and then compares it with the blood pressure in different segments of the legs to screen for , which may indicate atherosclerosis in the arteries of the aorta or lower extremities. The test is useful for determining decreased blood flow, even at early stages of disease, which can change the course of treatment. Carotid Intimal-Medial Thickness Evaluation Carotid intimal-medial thickness (IMT) evaluation is used to measure the thickness of the wall of the carotid artery in your neck. The thickening of the carotid artery or the presence of plaque can identify early vascular disease, which increases the risk of heart attack and stroke. Coronary Calcium Scoring In a coronary calcium scoring test, are taken of the heart to detect the amount of calcified plaque on your coronary artery walls. Plaque can block blood flow to your heart and be an indicator of early cardiovascular disease. High-Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein A blood test can detect increased levels of a protein known as high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (CRP), which may signal inflammation in your arteries. This inflammation may contribute to atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, and increase your risk of heart attack or stroke. Advanced Lipoprotein (a) Testing About one in five people have elevated lipoprotein (a), also known as Lp(a), an inherited, independent risk factor for early heart disease and stroke. Lp(a) testing is a blood test that is particularly beneficial for people with a family history of early heart disease, and for people with heart disease but no known cardiovascular risk factors. Metabolic Panel People with metabolic disorders such as diabetes and prediabetes are at greater risk of early heart disease and blood clotting. Early detection of abnormal metabolic health can guide lifestyle changes and medication therapy to help prevent diabetes and serious diabetes-related health problems. Thrombosis Screening Thrombosis, or blood clots, contribute to heart attacks, strokes, vascular disease in the legs, and sudden cardiac death. Blood tests can identify underlying causes of blood clots or otherwise unexplained vascular disease. Vascular Health Screening Abnormal vascular function is sometimes the first sign of cardiovascular disease and may demonstrate that disease has already started to affect the arteries. People with abnormal vascular function are at heightened risk for heart attacks, strokes, and other cardiovascular events. Monitoring vascular health over time may be useful in helping to assess the effectiveness of certain therapies. , we know that proper nutrition is critical to maintaining and improving your cardiovascular health. Through our Heart Healthy Nutrition Program, we help you improve your overall wellness. Heart Healthy Nutrition Program Appointments Appointments with our registered dietitian can be made online or by calling Each participant receives a customized meal plan to complement their medical treatment and reach their wellness goals. Our program is tailored for people at risk for or who have received a diagnosis of cardiovascular disease , or who have excess body weight or . You learn how to make healthy food choices that can help control , manage metabolic syndrome or diabetes, and help you achieve your weight loss or weight management goals. First you meet with our registered dietitian to discuss your medical and diet history and your social habits. We then help you find ways to bring a healthier way of eating into your day-to-day life. With your approval, our dietitian talks to your doctor before and after your appointment to ensure the best approach is taken to your cardiovascular health. With our meal plans, you won’t feel deprived, should not feel hungry, and can eat out or cook at home. We provide meal and snack ideas based on your budget and taste preferences and can provide food coaching to support you as you adopt a new way of eating. Our meal plans incorporate aspects of these heart-healthy diet plans: Mediterranean diet, which focuses on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and monounsaturated fats Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension, also known as DASH, a low-sodium program that emphasizes vegetables, fruit, and low-fat dairy and protein sources American Diabetes Association dietary guidelines, which focus on portion control and limiting meat and foods high in starch, such as potatoes and corn Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes diet, developed by the National Cholesterol Education Program, which is low in saturated fat and cholesterol We recommend meeting with the dietitian regularly, so you can receive consistent support and guidance as you adapt to a new way of eating. A variety of major health insurance plans are accepted. We recommend you contact your health insurance provider to confirm whether nutrition counseling is covered under your plan. If your plan does not cover medical nutrition therapy or if you do not have health insurance, we offer a reduced self-pay rate. Our registered dietitian, Heather A. Hodson, RDN , helps people make sustainable changes to reduce their risk of heart disease and promote better overall health by taking an approach that is fully centered on the patient. Appointments can be scheduled online Adopting a physical fitness routine is one of the most important things you can do to improve your cardiac health. Physical activity improves multiple cardiovascular risk factors, including blood pressure, blood sugar, body weight, and stress, and has the unique ability to improve blood vessel function. Whether you are new to exercise or a seasoned athlete, we invite you to learn more about how our fitness-focused and sports cardiology programs can help you safely reach your fitness potential. Fitness-Focused Cardiology Program The fitness-focused cardiology program is geared toward people who are new to an exercise routine or who need guidance in building and maintaining a new commitment to exercise. We believe exercise is medicine, and that everyone benefits from a prescribed exercise routine that fits their body, age, and health status. Dr. Sean P. Heffron helps people of all fitness levels safely start and maintain an exercise program. Our program is led by Dr. , a cardiologist with specialized training in exercise physiology. Dr. Heffron assesses your history with exercise, current fitness level, and medical status to develop a plan to improve your cardiovascular health through physical activity and focused exercise. He provides practical advice on starting and maintaining an exercise program and recommendations on the right types of exercise for you. This is done in collaboration with your doctor and dietitian and with specialized attention to your cardiovascular health history. Schedule an exercise consultation with Dr. Heffron or call Sports Cardiology Service Dr. Heffron has teamed up with cardiology services through NYU Langone Sports Health to provide specialized care for athletes and active people of all ages. This includes specialized care for athletes with heart conditions and athletes who are predisposed to developing a heart condition, including people who have high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or other lipid disorders. The team at NYU Langone’s Cardiovascular Thrombosis Program offers comprehensive care to patients with inherited or acquired clotting disorders, backed by the latest research available. Our team is actively involved with clinical trials and regularly collaborates with expert investigators, clinicians, and statisticians from NYU Langone’s to bring you the most innovative and effective care possible. A thrombosis is an excessive or dangerous blood clot that forms in a vein or artery. If you develop a blood clot, you may have many questions about why it occurred, the possibility of it happening again, and how to prevent it from reoccurring. Our team of specialists provides complete evaluation, diagnosis, and disease management services for people with clotting conditions or who currently have a blood clot. We treat patients with a variety of thrombotic conditions, including: hypercoagulable conditions, where your blood clots too much platelet hyperreactivity, or sticky platelet syndrome venous thromboembolic events, where the blood clots in the venous system, such as deep venous thrombosis pulmonary embolism arterial clotting, such as heart attack or graft or stent thrombosis, which is clotting around a prior stent or a bypass graft unexplained clotting disorders We also offer assistance in preventing excessive coagulation of your blood before, during, and after surgery, and the management of antiplatelet therapies, which are medicines that stop blood platelets from sticking together and clotting. We perform platelet testing, coagulation testing, and genetic testing to help guide anticlotting strategies, and develop a treatment plan tailored especially for you. Dr. Jeffrey S. Berger is an internationally renowned expert in the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of clotting disorders. Venous Thromboembolic Center We offer superior care for deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism through streamlined diagnosis and treatment. Heart Programs Our cardiothoracic surgeons and interventional cardiologists are leaders in cardiovascular care, specializing in minimally invasive procedures and surgery for conditions that affect the aorta, arteries, valves, veins, and heart. Our team of cardiologists can help you lower your risk for heart attack, stroke, and other cardiac and vascular conditions. Our doctors provide complete diagnosis and treatment plans for people with inherited heart rhythm conditions. Vein Center We offer minimally invasive vein treatments that our surgeons can perform in our offices. 212-263-4310 We see patients in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and on Long Island. TAVR Experts Our interventional cardiologists and cardiac surgeons have performed more than 5,000 transcatheter aortic valve replacements, among the most in the U.S. Leaders in MitraClip We’re busiest in the Northeast for transcatheter mitral valve procedures, and have performed more than 500 MitraClip® procedures. Interventional cardiologists and cardiac surgeons at NYU Langone’s Transcatheter Heart Valve Program are among the most experienced in the country at performing nonsurgical procedures to repair and replace heart valves. We are leaders in mitral valve repair with MitraClip , transcatheter mitral valve replacement, and triscuspid valve repair and replacement. During a transcatheter procedure, we use a blood vessel in the leg to access the heart valve. After this nonsurgical treatment, people live longer, experience improved quality of life, and have fewer symptoms of heart valve disease, including shortness of breath, than people whose valves are not repaired or replaced. In many cases, transcatheter procedures are safer than traditional open heart surgery, which requires a large incision and longer recovery time. , we also partner with surgeons at the , who use minimally invasive and robotic techniques to treat mitral valve disease. Our TAVR Expertise Our heart experts have performed more than 5,000 TAVR procedures—among the most in the country—to treat people with . We are pioneers in the field and were the first in the world to perform an advanced type of TAVR using the new Medtronic CoreValve™ Evolut™ R Pro System. Our survival rates are among the best in the country, and most patients require only a one-day hospital stay, compared with a national average of three days. Procedures are performed using conscious sedation, which uses a sedative and an anesthetic to relax you and block any pain, and has a faster recovery period than general anesthesia. Nearly all of our patients—96 percent—go home the day after procedure. Only 4 percent require a pacemaker after the procedure, and the risk of or death is less than 1 percent. This far exceeds national averages. Our TAVR team in Manhattan is led by Dr. Mathew R. Williams , who has performed more TAVR procedures than any surgeon in the country. Procedures are performed in our state-of-the-art hybrid operating rooms at NYU Langone’s , which features single-bedded rooms for all of our patients. TAVR is an option for many people who need treatment for aortic valve disease. This includes those classified as high-risk who for medical reasons would not be a candidate for open heart surgery, as well as people who are considered low-risk for complications due to their relatively young age and overall good health. We are pioneers in the use of TAVR in low-risk patients, and were part of the clinical trial that made the treatment available to this group. Our doctors work with you to determine whether TAVR is the best treatment for you. If another approach is better suited to your condition, our surgeons are also experts in all forms of cardiac valve surgery, including open heart surgery, and our outcomes exceed national averages. We also perform aortic balloon valvuloplasty, a transcatheter technique that is an option for some people who are not candidates for TAVR. Excellence in Transcatheter Mitral Valve Repair We offer nonsurgical mitral valve repair, including with MitraClip , to treat , and perform more of these procedures than any program in the Northeast. is a device that helps the valve’s flaps, or leaflets, to close more effectively. MitraClip is available for people with degenerative mitral valve regurgitation brought on by conditions such as mitral valve prolapse, or functional mitral regurgitation that is a result of the overworked heart growing larger and pulling at the leaflets so they do not form a proper seal. During the MitraClip procedure, your doctor accesses the mitral valve using a small incision in the groin. A clip is threaded through a catheter, and doctors place the device on the mitral valve. This reduces and in some cases eliminates regurgitation. Because of our vast experience, our doctors can perform a MitraClip procedure twice as quickly as most centers. A shorter procedure time reduces the risk of complications, and our patients are usually up and walking a couple of hours after the procedure and are back home the next day. Most of our patients experience a significant reduction in regurgitation, which relieves symptoms, increases longevity, and improves quality of life. In addition to MitraClip , we also perform mitral balloon valvuloplasty for people who have mitral valve stenosis due to rheumatic heart disease. We are also involved in numerous new technologies that are being developed to treat this condition. Advanced Mitral Valve Replacement transcatheter mitral valve replacement , in which our doctors guide a new valve through a catheter to the heart, where it can take over the work of the diseased valve. Transcatheter mitral valve replacement is available for people for are at high risk or are not candidates for open heart surgery, or those who have had prior mitral valve replacement and are in need of a new valve. NYU Langone is a pioneer in the use of transcatheter mitral valve replacement, and our doctors actively participate in clinical trials for investigational devices. All patients are screened to determine which device is most suitable to their diagnosis. Tricuspid Valve Repair and Replacement Tricuspid valve regurgitation occurs when the valve between the heart’s right atrium and right ventricle does not close properly. If severe and left untreated, patients with triscupid valve regurgitation may develop shortness of breath, swelling in the stomach, leg swelling, and pulmonary hypertension, all of which can be debilitating. We are currently enrolling high-risk surgical patients in clinical trials using new transcatheter tricuspid valve repair and replacement devices. We are located at NYU Langone’s in Manhattan. We also see patients at the following locations in Brooklyn, Queens, and on Long Island: To make an appointment at any of our locations, please call Our valve specialists provide the most appropriate treatment for your heart valve condition, including transcather procedures, open heart surgery, or watchful waiting. Director, Heart Valve Center Alan F. Vainrib Nonsurgical Heart Procedure Saves Mom During Pregnancy NYU Langone orthopedic experts provide surgical and nonsurgical treatments for people experiencing athletic-related or traumatic injuries, as well as degenerative conditions affecting the shoulder and elbow. These include rotator cuff injuries, dislocation and instability issues, , and fractures. Our surgeons are dedicated to the treatment of shoulder and elbow conditions, from sprains and strains to reconstructive surgery and joint replacement. Conditions we provide treatment for include: dislocated shoulder (shoulder instability), which occurs when the top of the upper arm bone becomes disengaged from the shoulder socket elbow sprain and fracture frozen shoulder , which is the tightening of the shoulder joint that makes it painful to move the arm golfer’s elbow, pain in the bone on the inner side of the elbow labral tear , an injury to the tissue that holds the arm in place little league elbow, pain in the elbow joint that occurs in young baseball players before the age of puberty shoulder tendinitis , tendinopathy, or tendinosis, also called tennis shoulder, which are tiny tears or inflammation in the tendons that connect the shoulder to the muscles of the rotator cuff and biceps shoulder sprain tennis elbow, pain in the bone on the outside of the elbow Procedures we perform include: adhesive capsulitis surgery for frozen shoulder, during which the arm is moved at the shoulder joint to relieve pain and stiffness stabilization shoulder surgery rotator cuff repair , a surgery to fix tears in the muscles of the shoulder and upper arm shoulder replacement and reverse total shoulder replacement, particularly for people with shoulder osteoarthritis tendon repair Female Pelvic Conditions & Treatments If you have a urogynecologic condition, such as recurrent urinary tract infections (UTIs), , or bladder pain syndrome (interstitial cystitis), you may be searching for an experienced and compassionate doctor to help you. At NYU Langone’s Center for Female Pelvic Medicine, our specialists treat women for a wide range of conditions and provide you with many different treatment approaches. Urinary and Stress Incontinence Urinary incontinence is the unintentional loss of urine. Stress incontinence occurs when a physical activity—such as coughing or sneezing—puts pressure, or stress, on your bladder, causing urine to leak. It results from the weakening of the muscles and tissues that support the bladder. Pelvic organ prolapse happens when the muscles and ligaments that support your pelvic organs weaken over time. The weakening causes the organs—including the bladder, rectum, uterus, ovaries, and fallopian tubes or intestines—to slip out of place, or prolapse. The prolapsed organs then push against the vaginal walls, causing pressure, discomfort, or pain. Bladder Dysfunction Also known as voiding dysfunction, bladder dysfunction occurs when your bladder either does not empty completely, or it empties too frequently or “without permission.” Recurrent Urinary Tract Infections UTIs occur when bacteria invade and multiply in the urinary tract system, which includes the kidneys, bladder, ureters, and urethra. Women are more susceptible to UTIs than men because of their shorter urinary tracts. Some women experience recurrent UTIs, meaning that they contract the infection three or more times a year. Urologic Consequences of Neurologic Disease Certain neurologic conditions may cause UTIs and bladder dysfunction. A or spinal cord injury or chronic conditions such as multiple sclerosis may affect your bladder health as well. Bladder Pain Syndrome Bladder pain syndrome, also known as interstitial cystitis, is a chronic inflammation of the bladder wall that causes severe pain. The cause is unknown and doctors only arrive at a diagnosis of interstitial cystitis after ruling out all other urologic and pelvic conditions. Radiation-Induced Lower Urinary Tract Dysfunction Women who undergo radiation therapy as part of cancer treatment may find that the radiation leads to urogynecologic problems, such as incontinence, urinary frequency and urgency, difficulty emptying the bladder, and kidney problems. These problems may not occur until many years after radiation therapy is completed. Fistulas of the Urinary Tract A urinary fistula is an abnormal opening between the bladder and vagina, between the urethra and the vagina, or between the ureter and the vagina. Common causes of urinary fistulas include surgery such as a hysterectomy, radiation to the pelvis, or pelvic trauma. The fistulas cause urinary incontinence because the urine flows directly from the bladder or ureter into the vagina. Urethral Diverticulum Urethral diverticulum is a condition in which a small pouch forms next to your urethra. The pouch connects to your urethra and fills with urine, causing pain during or after urination, irritation, dribbling of urine, incontinence, recurrent UTIs, and painful intercourse. Treatments We Offer We offer a variety of treatment options for female pelvic conditions, such as medications, depending on your particular condition. We also work closely with NYU Langone physical therapists and physiatrists, or rehabilitation experts, to help you make lifestyle changes through exercises, weight loss, diet changes, and control of chronic cough, which can help relieve your symptoms. Your doctor may recommend physical therapy to relieve symptoms associated with pelvic floor disorders. Physical therapy can strengthen weakened muscles, improve the flexibility of tight muscles, teach self-care and relaxation techniques, and improve the coordination of your pelvic floor and abdominal muscles. Surgery is a treatment option for a variety of urogynecologic conditions, both common and rare, including , reconstruction of the lower urinary tract and vagina,  urethral dysfunction, and other bladder conditions. If you are concerned about how surgery may affect your fertility, talk to your doctor. There are a number of fertility-sparing surgeries available. We also offer uterine-sparing operations for women who are no longer in their childbearing years. In addition, several of the procedures we offer are so minimally invasive that you do not even need to enter an operating room. These include urethral bulking, a procedure used to manage urinary incontinence in which your doctor injects synthetic materials or collagen around the urethra to augment the urethral wall and increase resistance to urinary flow; transvaginal tape, which can support the middle of the urethra; a pubovaginal sling, which can stop urine leakage; and injections of botulinum toxin (Botox At NYU Langone, our gynecologic surgeons are committed to excellence through expertise. We use minimally invasive surgical techniques like laparoscopy and robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery. But the mastery lies in our ability to pair the right procedure with the right patient, ensuring that each person receives a distinct treatment plan best targeted to their individual needs. By using minimally invasive treatments, our patients experience faster recovery times, reduced pain, smaller incisions, and shorter hospital stays. These are some of the conditions we treat: heavy or painful menstrual periods ovarian cysts ovarian remnant syndrome adenomyosis, in which the endometrial lining grows into the muscular wall of the uterus adenomyoma, which is a benign tumor pelvic adhesions cervical insufficiency or incompetence congenital anomalies of the reproductive system NYU Langone gynecologic surgeons use the most advanced laparoscopic and robotic surgical techniques. Our specialists are experienced in urogynecology, pelvic reconstructive surgery, minimally invasive surgery, robotic surgery, and pediatric and adolescent gynecology. Your care begins with using the most accurate and advanced diagnosis strategies to develop a treatment plan customized to your condition and your care goals. We support our patients with access to fertility services, nutrition guidance, mental health services, and physical therapy. We also address the needs of the LGBTQ+ community, providing respectful and inclusive care that is focused on the whole person. Laparoscopic and robotic procedures use only small incisions and have a shorter recovery time than other methods. Those we perform include the following: excision of endometriosis, including deep, infiltrating endometriosis involving bowel, bladder, and extrapelvic sites myomectomy , the surgical removal of fibroids hysterectomy, the surgical removal of the uterus management of ovarian cysts or masses cerclage, to treat cervical insufficiency and help prevent miscarriage prolapse repair Our gynecologic surgeons use minimally invasive techniques whenever possible to achieve better outcomes for their patients. Hysteroscopic procedures, which use a light scope to examine the cervix and uterus, include the following: resection (removal) of endometrial polyp resection of submucosal fibroid resection of uterine septum lysis of adhesions to treat Asherman’s syndrome endometrial ablation We also perform transcervical fibroid ablation , an ultrasound procedure also known by the brand name Sonata that is used to shrink fibroids. Specialized Surgical Care For people living with endometriosis and fibroids, we offer an integrative care approach that addresses your treatment goals, including preserving or improving fertility. At our , we provide uterine-preserving treatments that include robotic-assisted myomectomy, uterine artery embolization, and radiofrequency ablation. Doctors at our specialize in treatments that align with a woman’s fertility goals. This includes conservative, fertility-preserving surgery that removes endometriosis, and hysterectomy that removes the uterus as well as all endometriosis for people who do not wish to maintain future fertility. To optimize patient outcomes, minimally invasive gynecologic surgeons collaborate with other specialists at NYU Langone, including those in reproductive endocrinology, infertility, maternal–fetal medicine, colorectal surgery, urology, vascular surgery, interventional radiology, pain psychology, and physical therapy. Our gynecologic surgeons specialize in minimally invasive laparoscopic and robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery. Patricia Gil Hye-Chun Hur Division Director, Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery We provide the full spectrum of gynecologic care, including family planning, pregnancy, menopause, and treatment for conditions that affect the uterus and reproductive system. NYU Langone’s orthopedic trauma team is the most experienced and highly trained in the New York City area, each year providing urgent and follow-up care to thousands of people with traumatic orthopedic injuries and fractures. We treat people age 16 and older. Our surgeons treat every level of injury, from sprains and fractures to life-threatening trauma. Because of the nature of traumatic injury, our orthopedists work closely with plastic surgeons neurosurgeons , and vascular surgeons to deliver the highest level of care. We use advanced techniques to care for injuries to nerves and blood vessels, as well as injuries involving soft tissue loss. Conditions we treat include the following: acute fractures of bones, including the ankle, foot, tibia, tibial plateau, knee , femur, femur shaft, distal femur, distal radius, ulna, forearm, humerus, proximal humerus, humerus shaft, distal humerus, clavicle, hip and pelvis shoulder and elbow stress and insufficiency fractures , which are tiny breaks that develop as a result of repetitive or high-impact activity fragility fractures, which usually result from minor trauma such as a fall from standing in people who have weak bones problem orthopedic trauma such as fractures that do not join or heal improperly , failure of hardware such as screws or a prosthesis, or fractures that involve muscle or other soft tissue fracture-related infections and osteomyelitis , which is an infection in the bone Among the procedures we perform are the following: fracture repairs and joint-preserving surgery bone grafts, in which a donated piece of bone is used to help repair a fracture, fuse bones, or fill in gaps in the bone caused by cysts or tumors fracture reduction or fracture setting, which aligns a broken bone so it may heal properly joint contracture releases for the treatment of immobile joints limb lengthening, in which surgery and medical devices can lengthen a limb over time osteomyelitis treatment to cure bone infection We also create treatment plans to improve bone health and increase bone mass. Our surgeons provide emergency and urgent care at the following locations: Trauma Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Trauma Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island We provide outpatient and ambulatory care at the following locations: NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery—Rutherford Place NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery Associates NYU Langone Orthopedic Associates—Garden City To reach one of our orthopedic trauma experts, call 800-FRACTUR or 800-372-2887 . In most cases, we are able to provide care the same day you call. In addition, our surgeons work as part of the interdisciplinary teams at NYU Langone’s Bone Healing Center Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center Limb Salvage and Restoration Center Doctors at NYU Langone’s Clinical Genetic Services provide the most advanced, compassionate care for people interested in all types of genetic counseling and testing. We offer medical genetics evaluations that can identify and guide treatment of childhood and adult disorders, whether or not they are hereditary If you have been referred for genetic evaluation, you may have questions about the appointment and what tests you may have to take. Our goal is to provide you with an exact diagnosis. We share with you whatever is known about the condition, the cause or pattern of how it is inherited, and the course of the condition. We advise you on treatment options, including preventive measures and testing recommendations, and offer you information about support groups and educational opportunities to learn more about the condition. We may provide you with ongoing care or refer you to another specialist. We provide your referring physician with a detailed letter from our team summarizing your evaluation. Your records and diagnosis are not released to anyone else, nor are they discussed with an individual or group unless you give us specific permission in writing. That includes other family members, professionals from other institutions, and insurance companies. We encourage you to discuss anything that relates to your experience of having a child with a specific condition, your concern about having a hereditary condition yourself, or anything else that may help you feel more comfortable about your particular situation. Genetics Evaluation You may have been referred to us for a genetic evaluation for a number of reasons, including: Your child may have been born with a physical problem and the cause must be determined. Your child may not be developing either physically or mentally as expected for his or her age. You may have a condition that is suspected of being hereditary, or you may have a history of a hereditary condition in your family and want to know about its nature, the possibility for treatment, and the risk to other family members. Some evaluations can be completed in one session; some may require two or more. The entire evaluation may take anywhere from one day to several months. The number of sessions depends on the type of problem and the complexity of the evaluation. Your initial session can be expected to last one to two hours and subsequent visits are usually shorter. We also offer sessions for clinical genetic evaluations and genetic counseling at NYU Langone’s We start your genetic evaluation by getting a detailed family health and medical history and, if appropriate, perform a physical examination. For some patients, it may be important to examine other family members as well. We may recommend tests such as blood analyses and X-rays—though not all patients require tests—and a consultation with other specialists for the most thorough evaluation. Our program is in-network with many medical insurance plans, so please ask when you make your appointment. Most medical insurance plans cover genetic testing, but call your provider to make sure. We are able to get preauthorization for genetic testing under most circumstances—we do not begin testing until we’ve verified that it is covered by your insurance provider. NYU Langone’s orthopedic foot and ankle care program is one of the oldest in the United States, founded more than 45 years ago by a pioneer of the specialty, Dr. Paul Lapidus. Today, we have more than 10,000 patient visits and perform more than 800 surgical procedures each year. Our surgeons handle all conditions and injuries of the foot and ankle. In partnership with doctors at the Diabetic Foot and Ankle Center , we also treat people who have complex orthopedic issues connected to foot-related complications of VIDEO: Dr. John G. Kennedy discusses the different ways we use NanoScope technology to get our patients back on their feet quickly. Ankle replacement is available at . Advanced ankle arthritis may require an ankle fusion, which provides excellent pain relief, but no longer allows you to move your foot at the ankle joint. Total ankle arthroplasty, or ankle replacement, may be an effective option for some people with advanced arthritis to provide both pain relief and preserve motion. We also diagnose and treat people with ankle conditions using the NanoScope arthroscopy imaging system. Using this needle-sized instrument with an image-sensing chip at the tip, our surgeons can see inside the ankle joint to diagnose conditions such as arthritis and cartilage injuries and to perform minimally invasive procedures such as an ankle debridement to remove scar tissue or floating bone fragments. Procedures can be performed with local anesthesia in your doctor’s office, and you can follow along on a screen to get a better sense of what has been causing you pain. Conditions we provide treatment for include the following: Achilles tendonitis , which is inflammation of the tendon that connects the calf muscle to the heel bone foot injuries caused by complications of diabetes, including slow-healing wounds called ulcers foot and ankle arthritis foot, ankle, and toe fractures foot, ankle, and toe sprains caused by a tear in the ligaments hammertoe , or a toe that remains bent high arched foot, a condition in which too much weight is put on the ball of the foot, causing pain and stiffness metatarsalgia, or pain in the ball of the foot plantar fasciitis , inflammation of the tissue attached to the heel bone Procedures we perform include the following: amputation of leg, foot, or toe, often performed because of trauma or injury, infection, tumors, or lack of blood flow ankle fusion ankle replacement arthrodesis of foot and ankle, a procedure used to fuse the two bones together as a way to relieve pain from arthritis and other conditions corrective surgery for bunions , which are caused by excess bone in the area where the big toe connects to the foot fracture reduction, in which screws or other supportive devices are used to repair a broken bone NYU Langone adult reconstructive surgeons specialize in a full spectrum of joint care. We perform nearly 4,000 surgeries each year, a number that ensures you receive care from some of the most experienced surgeons in the field. Our team evaluates your joint-related condition and determines the best surgical approach for your body and lifestyle. Our surgeons are renowned for their expertise in performing joint replacements and minimally invasive surgeries that involve the knee, shoulder, and hip, as well as minimally invasive procedures such as anterior hip replacement and complex joint revision surgery. We also provide robotic and computer-assisted surgery for hip and knee replacement procedures. We perform reconstructive surgery for the following conditions: avascular necrosis, also known as , which results from a lack of blood supply to bones, most often in the hip and shoulder developmental defects of the hip and knee osteoarthritis, which causes pain, swelling, and reduced motion in the hands, knees hips spine foot and ankle gouty arthritis, caused by a buildup of uric acid in the joints osteitis deformans, also known as Paget’s disease, a bone condition that causes enlarged, deformed bones problems that develop with osteochondritis, also known as Legg-Calve-Perthes disease , a childhood condition that stops blood flow to the hip and can lead to early joint degeneration in adulthood posttraumatic arthritis, which occurs after injury to a joint, resulting in pain and swelling , which causes joint pain, swelling, and stiffness as a result of the immune system attacking otherwise healthy joints , an autoimmune disorder that causes the body to attack its own healthy joints, skin, and other organs the worsening of slipped-capital-femoral epiphysis, or SCFE, a childhood condition that can lead to early joint degeneration in adulthood elbow replacement surgery hip replacement surgery, also known as hip arthroplasty, as well as anterior hip replacement surgery, minimally invasive hip surgery, and robotic-assisted hip surgery joint replacement revision surgery of the hip, knee, shoulder, and elbow to correct problems from a prior replacement surgery knee and hip osteotomy, a surgery to realign the joint and heal damage caused by osteoarthritis knee replacement surgery, also known as knee arthroplasty, minimally invasive knee surgery, and robotic-assisted knee surgery shoulder replacement surgery, minimally invasive shoulder surgery, and robotic-assisted shoulder surgery Musculoskeletal oncologists at NYU Langone provide treatment for many types of bone and soft tissue tumors. We take a team approach to diagnosis and treatment, bringing together orthopedists and professionals in radiology, pathology, and plastic surgery. We also collaborate with surgical oncologists, medical oncologists, and radiation therapy experts at the Bone and Soft Tissue Tumor Program at NYU Langone's to discuss your condition, consider your lifestyle and needs, and formulate the best treatment plan for you. alveolar soft-part sarcoma, a rare cancer that occurs in the legs angiosarcoma, a cancer of the blood or lymph vessels, which is also referred to as lymphangiosarcoma chondrosarcoma, a cancerous tumor at the base of the skull or the bone along the back of the eyes, including extraskeletal chondrosarcoma clear cell sarcoma, a cancer that begins in tendons and can spread to nearby lymph nodes desmoplastic small round cell tumor, which starts in the abdomen and can spread to other areas of the pelvis Ewing sarcoma, a tumor that forms in bone or soft tissue, including extraskeletal Ewing sarcoma extraskeletal osteosarcoma, a bone and cartilage tumor fibrosarcoma, a soft-tissue cancer most commonly found in middle-aged adults and seniors ganglioneuroblastoma, rare tumors that form in nerve tissue hemangiopericytoma, a blood vessel tumor leiomyosarcoma, cancer of the smooth muscle cells liposarcoma, cancer of the fat cells malignant fibrous histiocytoma, a soft-tissue tumor found most commonly in the legs malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor, also known as neurofibrosarcoma, a tumor that covers nerves and is associated with neurofibromatosis type 1 malignant schwannomas, cancer of the nerves metastatic bone disease, cancer that starts elsewhere in the body and then spreads to bone osteocartilaginous exostosis, also known as osteochondroma, a benign bone tumor osteogenic sarcoma, osteosarcoma, and other forms of in adults and rhabdomyosarcoma, a cancerous tumor found in muscle synovial cell sarcomas, cancer of the foot Our m usculoskeletal oncologists perform many types of procedures, including the removal of benign and malignant tumors of the musculoskeletal system. Other tests and procedures we perform include biopsies to remove suspect cells to test for abnormalities and limb-sparing surgery. NYU Langone has one of the largest hand surgery programs in the United States, providing comprehensive care for injuries to the hand, wrist, finger, and forearm. These conditions are often caused by arthritis; fractures and dislocations of the wrist and hand; lacerations of tendons, nerves, and arteries; and acquired conditions such as and other nerve compression disorders of the upper extremities. Hand evaluations are performed at our Hand Center, which offers the full spectrum of care for upper extremity–related injuries for patients of all ages. Our board-certified and fellowship-trained hand specialists evaluate and treat thousands of patients each year. Some of the most effective treatments do not require surgery—they involve hand therapy and the use of several types of splints created by our certified hand therapists. When surgery is necessary, the latest and most sophisticated techniques are used. More than 5,000 hand procedures are performed each year at NYU Langone. Learn more about the conditions we specialize in and the treatments we provide at our Hand Center View All Locations (17) Mammograms are X-rays of the breasts. There are two types reviewed and interpreted by NYU Langone radiologists: screening and diagnostic. Screening mammograms are done for women that have no symptoms, problems, or concerns, and have never had . This is recommended on an annual basis starting at age 40, unless a woman is at a high risk for breast cancer, in which case screening may begin earlier. Diagnostic mammograms are performed if additional images are needed after a screening mammogram, or if a patient has a new symptom or concern such as feeling a new lump, has a history of breast cancer, or is undergoing short-term follow-up for a finding that is likely benign. A mammogram delivers a small dose of radiation. Learn more about radiation safety at NYU Langone What to Bring to Your Breast Imaging Appointment Please bring any previous mammogram results, such as reports, films, or CD-ROMs, if they are available. On the day of your exam, bring your prescription if you did not fax it and your insurance card. Our Locations (17) NYU Langone Radiology—Fort Hamilton 8721 5th Avenue, 3rd Floor, Brooklyn, NY, 11209 917-536-9240 917-536-9263 NYU Langone Radiology—Ambulatory Care Garden City NYU Langone Opens New Radiology Location in Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Expands Breast Cancer Services View All Locations (19) As we grow older, our bones lose some of their calcium, which weakens them and makes them more prone to fractures. Mild bone loss is referred to as osteopenia, and more severe loss is known as Bone densitometry is an exam used by physicians at NYU Langone to diagnose bone loss. Your doctor may also use it as a tool to follow the results of any treatment initiated to address this bone loss. Preparing for a Bone Density Test You may eat normally on the day of the test. If you are taking calcium supplements, please avoid taking them for 24 hours prior to the exam. Wear loose, comfortable clothing without buttons, zippers, or snaps, if possible. Inform your doctor and the technologist if you have received barium or any other contrast agent or radioisotope during a CT or other scan in the past 10 to 14 days. If so, you may have to reschedule the bone density test for a later time. Please inform your doctor and technologist if there is a chance that you may be pregnant. Prior to having the test, we ask that you fill out this brief bone densitometry screening form During the Bone Density Test The established standard bone density test is dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, or DEXA. Measurements are most commonly taken of your lower spine and both hips. Occasionally, the test may include the bones in the forearm. The exam is performed with you comfortably lying down on your back. During the spinal portion of the examination, your legs are raised and resting on a soft foam cushion, which straightens your spine. When examining your hips, your feet are placed in a brace to rotate your hips inward. The scanner slowly passes above the areas of interest as it collects information that is used to make a diagnosis. The exam usually lasts for about 15 minutes. Our Locations (19) Our genetic counselors have graduate training in both medical genetics and counseling and are certified by the American Board of Genetic Counseling. Your counselor can help you consider the factors that influence your decision-making and provide support. Jill Borsuk Abrams, MS, CGC, Genetic Counselor Ms. Borsuk completed her bachelor’s degree at Cornell University and her master’s-level training in genetic counseling at Northwestern University. She is board-certified by the American Board of Genetic Counseling (ABGC). Her area of clinical specialty is pediatric genetic counseling. Katherine Daley, MS, CGC, Genetic Counselor Ms. Daley completed her bachelor’s degree at the University of Pennsylvania and her master’s-level training in genetic counseling at Sarah Lawrence College. She has been board-certified by the ABGC since 1999. Her area of interest is pediatric genetic counseling. Rachel Rabin, MS, CGC, Genetic Counselor Ms. Rabin completed her bachelor’s degree at Tulane University and her master’s-level training in genetic counseling at LIU Post. She is board-certified by the ABGC. Her clinical specialty is pediatric genetic counseling. 212-263-8346 212-263-8524 At NYU Langone’s Vein Center, our vascular surgeons offer minimally invasive procedures to treat painful and unsightly varicose veins and spider veins, as well as deep venous conditions such as May–Thurner syndrome, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) , venous ulcers, and pelvic congestion syndrome. Our goal is to improve your quality of life as well as provide an optimal cosmetic appearance. Varicose and Spider Vein Treatments We offer the full range of varicose vein treatments, including the following: thermal ablation using radiofrequency and laser heat to collapse the vein nonthermal ablation using specialized glue and foam to stop blood flow to the vein microphlebectomy, which uses very small incisions to remove varicose veins After your initial varicose vein treatment, we offer sclerotherapy to remove any residual spider veins. A very small amount of a specialized solution is placed in the remaining vein, causing it to collapse and be reabsorbed by the body. Treatment for Deep Venous Conditions Procedures to treat deep venous conditions are performed at our dedicated Outpatient Vascular Surgery Center. We offer the most advanced diagnostic tools and treatment techniques, including intravascular ultrasound, which uses soundwaves to create images of affected veins, and balloon angioplasty and stenting to open up any compressed or closed veins. These treatments require only mild sedation, allowing for a rapid return to your everyday activities. Our internationally renowned surgeons are committed to excellence in patient care, . We treat the full range of venous conditions, and are engaged in almost every national clinical trial into new treatments and therapies. Our goal is to make you feel better, improve your quality of life, and have you looking your best. Our surgeons are world-renowned for their expertise in minimally invasive vein procedures. Katherine Teter We have locations across New York City, as well as Long Island and Westchester County. 844-888-8301 Sports Cardiology Sports Gastroenterology Sports Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Sports Pulmonology Sports Rehabilitation Sports Rheumatology Athletic Training Services Center for Women’s Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Center Sports Performance Center Sports Performance & Wellness Lectures Registration Form Our Partners ’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics. Complete Care for the Athlete We provide primary and specialty care services and sports, health, and fitness testing for athletes and other active people. Leaders in Rehabilitation Rusk Rehabilitation has ranked among the top 10 hospitals in the nation by since 1989. NYU Langone Sports Health experts know that athletes and other active people have unique lifestyle considerations and goals when it comes to getting and staying healthy. It’s why we offer a range of specialized care services and programs designed to meet all your health and wellness needs—and get you back in the game after illness or injury. Subscribe to the Sports Health Newsletter Get the latest news and advice from Sports Health, and information about upcoming events. Subscribe VIDEO: No matter your sport or activity, no matter your health concern, NYU Langone Sports Health experts have you covered with first-in-class care. Our team comprises sports experts across specialties—including , dermatology, endocrinology, exercise physiology, gastroenterology , orthopedic surgery, physical medicine and rehabilitation , occupational and physical therapy, pulmonary medicine rheumatology , and sports medicine. Together, they provide complete care for athletes of all ages and levels, including treatment and prevention strategies for injury or illness, customized rehabilitation programs, and sports performance enhancement and training. Our dedicated clinical coordinator guides your or your child’s care with the specialists on our team with the goal of providing you with a seamless experience. They answer your questions and help you make appointments with the appropriate providers on our team. Contact our clinical coordinator at SportsHealth@NYULangone.org Whether you’re a runner with a skin rash, a soccer player coping with gastrointestinal issues, or a casual weekend basketball player with an ankle sprain, you’ll get comprehensive, multidisciplinary care from the experts at NYU Langone’s Sports Health. Our Specialty Care Programs Tips for Staying at the Top of Your Game A Patient’s Guide to Shoulder Replacement Surgery: Podcast Martial Artist Doing What He Loves After Hip Replacement Our orthopedic experts provide world-class care through our specialty programs. NYU Langone orthopedic surgeons and primary care sports medicine doctors care for people with acute and chronic sports-related and overuse injuries through the Through the , we provide injury care, physical therapy, and obstetric–gynecologic care, as well as training advice designed to help women reach their athletic goals. Pediatric sports medicine specialists provide care for sports-related injuries through the Center for Young Athletes . At the , our exercise physiologists offer the latest fitness training and testing to help you perform at your best, no matter your sport. Concussion Center specialists provide coordinated care and rehabilitation services to help people recover more quickly and completely. NYU Langone certified athletic trainers provide services to area youth, high school, college, university, and professional teams as well as dance and performing arts groups. Learn more about these services To make an appointment with a member of the Sports Health team, please call . If you know the specialist or specific doctor you wish to see, you may directly with them. Our multidisciplinary team of experts specialize in caring for athletes and other active people. Laith M. Jazrawi Dennis A. Cardone Michael J. Alaia Sports Orthopedic Surgeon Milan R. Amin Laryngologist MA Matthew Apicella Sports Medicine Specialist Aaron Arredondo Emergency Medicine Doctor April M. Bailey-Maletta DPM Podiatrist Erin M. Banta Allergist Elise C. Bixby Pediatric Orthopedic Surgeon Eric E. Bondarsky Lauren E. Borowski Joseph Bosco III Jolan Browne PT, DPT Physical Therapist Reed Caldwell Abigail L. Campbell Kirk A. Campbell Brianne E. Carroll PT Alfred Castillo Abraham Chachoua John F. Charitable View All 172 Doctors & 172 Related Centers and Programs Center for Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine Our experts offer the latest evidence-backed biologic therapies for musculoskeletal conditions and injuries. We tailor care to the specific health and performance needs of women athletes of all ages. We offer interdisciplinary, patient-centered care to young people with sports injuries. Our expert team provides the medical and rehabilitation support you need to recover from a head injury. Harkness Center for Dance Injuries We provide affordable medical and preventive care to dancers. Our orthopedic surgeons and sports medicine doctors can help you recover when you’ve been sidelined by injury. Whether you’re an amateur or a professional athlete, we can help you bring your A game. Sport-Specific Centers and Programs Golf Lab Hockey Center Running Performance Programs Basketball Star Celebrates National Physical Therapy Month Five Fitness Trends to Help You Get a Fit & Healthy Body What Is Pickleball & Do You Get a Real Workout Playing It? How a Video Doctor Visit Helped an Injured Figure Skater How an Avid Cyclist Got Back to Pain-Free Riding Fixing a Weight Lifter’s Persistent Shoulder & Knee Pain Meniscus Transplant Helps Busy Mom Get Active Again How Surgery & Physical Therapy Helped a Yoga Fan’s Symptoms How a Fire Captain & Triathlete Got His Life Back Sports Cardiology Services NYU Langone sports cardiologists are leaders in cardiovascular care who have extensive training and experience diagnosing and treating a wide range of heart symptoms and conditions in athletes and active people of all ages. Our aim is to provide the highest level of cardiovascular care to help you maintain your heart health and stay in the game, no matter what your sport. Cardiac Care for Athletes We provide specialized care for athletes with heart conditions including scarring and weakness of the heart muscle, irregular heart rhythms such as supraventricular ; atherosclerosis; and heart valve disease. Our pediatric cardiologists, part of , care for children and adolescents with congenital heart disease. We provide the most advanced medical and surgical treatments for these cardiovascular conditions, as well as sport-specific guidance and expertise to help you maintain fitness and train and compete safely. Our team of cardiologists have the skill and expertise to care for every athlete’s heart health. For people who are predisposed to developing a heart condition, including athletes who have or high cholesterol or other , we provide comprehensive diagnostic testing, including cardiopulmonary exercise tests and stress echocardiography, which help doctors accurately evaluate your risk, rule out other conditions, and guide training recommendations. We then use the latest evidence-based treatments, lifestyle recommendations, nutrition advice, and support to help protect you from developing heart disease while also enabling you to participate fully in your chosen sport or activity. We refer people with —a genetic condition that can cause thickening of the heart muscle—to specialists at NYU Langone’s , who are renowned for their expertise and skill in caring for people with this genetic condition. Cardiovascular Rehabilitation Members of our cardiovascular rehabilitation team, part of , have expertise in caring for athletes who have experienced a heart attack, are recovering from another heart condition or procedure, or who have . They create a treatment plan tailored to your needs and work with you throughout your recovery so that you can return to your sport safely. Education and Resources for Heart Health Our sports cardiologists participate in educational events and provide information and resources to help you maintain heart health and optimize your athletic performance. Learn more about our Our Sports Cardiology Experts NYU Langone sports cardiologists, cardiothoracic surgeons, and cardiovascular rehabilitation specialists are leaders in the field. Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, MBA Thoracic Surgery View Profile Sean P. Heffron, MD Cardiology, Preventive Cardiology Pediatric & Adult Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery, Pediatric Cardiac Surgery Lawrence Phillips, MD Cardiology, Nuclear Cardiology Pediatric Cardiology, Cardiac Electrophysiology Jonathan H. Whiteson, MD Cardiopulmonary Rehabilitation We have several locations in Manhattan. 844-698-8832 Doctors from NYU Langone’s Venous Thromboembolic Center provide immediate and life-saving treatment for people who develop blood clots in their veins, a condition called venous thrombosis, as well as follow-up care for those at risk of this serious condition. Blood clots can develop after surgery or injury, during , or as a result of an underlying disease, such as cancer, , or COVID-19. Deep vein thrombosis occurs when a blood clot forms in a deep vein, usually in the leg. If left untreated, a clot can break loose and travel through the bloodstream to the lungs, which can lead to a life-threatening condition known as Our rapid response team provides timely, efficient treatment for people with blood clots who come into the . We also closely monitor all patients at who are receiving treatment for blood clots, and offer follow-up care after discharge from the hospital or emergency department. Treatment can include medications to thin the blood and break up clots, and surgery to remove or dissolve a clot. Surgeries take place at Kimmel Pavilion, which is equipped to allow traditional surgery and image-guided transcatheter procedures to happen simultaneously and in one place. This allows us to safely treat the most complex blood clots and limits the need for multiple surgeries, allowing people to go home more quickly and experience a faster recovery. Our team includes experts in cardiology, critical care, emergency medicine, interventional radiology, maternal–fetal medicine, neurosurgery, and vascular surgery. After treatment, our team provides follow-up care to help prevent future blood clots. Our doctors are leaders in advancing the understanding of venous thromboembolism and in into the latest treatments. This gives our patients access to therapies currently only available through clinical trials. It also helps us develop new techniques for preventing blood clots, such as understanding the factors that increase a person’s risk. We are also working on developing a blood test that will assess a person’s risk for future clots. Our experts provide emergency treatment and medical and surgical treatment of blood clots. Medical Director Christopher G. Caspers Hersh Chandarana Ezra E. Dweck Sean M. Farquharson David L. Green Hematologist Katherine Hochman Hospitalist James Horowitz Kenneth B. Hymes Catherine Jamin 22 Affiliated Programs and Resources We offer minimally invasive vein treatments performed by expertly trained surgeons. Venous Thromboembolic Center Educational Videos We provide training to help medical professionals diagnose and treat patients experiencing deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. Watch Our Educational Videos First-of-Its-Kind Center to Treat Blood Clots Opens To save time and get the most out of your genetic evaluation at NYU Langone’s Clinical Genetic Services, please provide us with your medical records and any prior genetic evaluations before your first appointment. Please also send a detailed family history, but don’t worry if you are missing some information. Please mail the information to Clinical Genetic Services, 145 East 32nd Street, 14th Floor (PH), New York, NY 10016; or fax it to us at 646-754-2250 Patients Who Are Children Please provide any records of prior medical and developmental evaluations so that we can be better prepared to address your child’s individual issues. Make a list of any questions you have and also ask your child’s physicians to send us any questions. Adult Patients Please call us at before your appointment in order to find out what records to provide. We review all medical records specific to the referral for your genetic evaluation, such as family history information, pathology, or prior test results for yourself or an affected family member. If you or your family member has had testing for cancer predisposition, please bring that report as well. 212-598-6137 NYU Langone’s Bone Healing Center is dedicated to providing a collaborative team approach to the evaluation and treatment of bone problems of all kinds, including complex fractures and bone infections We are pioneering new technologies and procedures to help people facing a long and difficult recovery because of problems such as complex fracture reconstruction or difficulties with fracture healing. For example, we have been at the forefront of studying bone stimulating medications (Teraperitide) as a treatment for bone repair, such as fractures due to . We have also researched Bone Morphogenic Proteins (BMP) on human tissue—growth factors created in the laboratory and placed during surgery to help bones heal better. The Bone Healing Center cares for stress fractures and insufficiency fractures—a type of stress fracture caused by normal stress, such as walking on a weakened bone—osteoporosis, and fragility fractures. We also specialize in bone issues that include bisphosphonate (atypical) fractures, or fractures that may be linked to long-term use of this and other osteoporosis drugs; bone infections; bones that are not healing properly or are slow to heal; limb length discrepancies, or short or long limbs; and metabolic bone disorders that lead to weakened bones, such as premature menopause, thyroid dysfunction, hypogonadism, softening of the bones caused by a vitamin D deficiency, hyperparathyroidism , Paget’s diseases of the bone, and hypercalcemia, in which high calcium levels can weaken bones. Procedures and treatment options we offer include: bone grafts diagnostic testing, such as CT, MRI, nuclear scans, and DEXA scans, an X-ray used to check bone density electronic bone stimulation, a noninvasive therapy that applies low electrical current to the fracture site to help speed bone growth the Ilizarov method, a series of techniques used to help lengthen limbs of different lengths or to reconstruct bone deformities nonunion repair for fractures that aren’t healing quickly or at all osteoporosis therapy platelet rich plasma therapy, which uses a concentrated amount of platelets from your own blood to maximize healing stem cell treatments Taylor spatial frame, a medical device using external wires and rods that attach to the bone to heal complex fractures and deformities ultrasound therapy that uses low-intensity pulsed ultrasound to speed bone healing For new patients, please view our . You can contact us at . Our fax number is 212-598-6015 Our specialists work together as a team to diagnose and plan the best treatment strategy for each patient. Kenneth A. Egol Gregory Chang Musculoskeletal Imaging Specialist Sanjit R. Konda Orthopedic Trauma Surgeon Philipp Leucht Leon D. Rybak Nirmal C. Tejwani Joint Preservation & Arthritis Center We have doctors located in Manhattan. 855-777-7863 Joint Preservation Treatments Joint Preservation Registry of the Knee The Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center at is dedicated to advancing conservative treatment of joint-related problems and to providing personalized approaches to prolong the health of your joints. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 10 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics, rheumatology, and rehabilitation. Our goal is to reduce your symptoms, restore joint function, and delay the onset of degenerative arthritis in active people as well as in individuals who want to explore less-invasive alternatives to joint replacement. As a patient at the Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center, your care is followed throughout the course of your condition. Careful monitoring of your progress is vital to pinpointing the right treatment for each person’s specific problem, and to determining when to consider the next step in the treatment process. Whether you have injured your anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and are considering ACL reconstruction, injured your cartilage and are contemplating cartilage replacement, or if you have a longstanding history of knee osteoarthritis and are considering total knee replacement, our physicians discuss surgical and nonsurgical options with you, and our recommendations may change as we follow you over time. We offer a combination of diagnostic and treatment approaches, including: specialized imaging, to inform diagnosis and personalized management biomarker and patient-reported outcome analysis to further customize management the latest surgical and nonsurgical techniques customized physical therapy regimens Our experts include specialists from sports medicine, rheumatology, physical medicine and rehabilitation, radiology, adult orthopedic joint reconstruction, and physical therapy. At the Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center, we perform clinical studies through NYU Langone’s Musculoskeletal Research Center . Through the Joint Preservation Partnership, we are customizing arthritis care for each patient. Our research program is led by Philip Band, PhD The Joint Preservation Partnership is a program designed to create a lifelong initiative for the management of arthritic conditions, and to maintain joint function in active individuals, regardless of their age. It unites experts within NYU Langone and beyond in studying, educating, treating, and promoting the preservation of joint function through individualized treatment for each patient. Dr. Jonathan Samuels treats a patient. To accomplish this, we are using advanced imaging techniques, biomarkers, and therapies intended to modify the disease process. The unifying goal of the Joint Preservation Partnership is to develop tools for identifying the most appropriate treatment for individual patients at each stage of arthritic disease. By improving arthritis treatment one patient at a time, the Joint Preservation Partnership aims to reduce the overall medical and socioeconomic burden of arthritis. Currently, more than 100 ongoing clinical studies are evaluating new approaches to the treatment of musculoskeletal disease. Collaborations across specialties enable physical therapy techniques, medications, injectable agents, and new surgical techniques to be compared, and properly used to address each patient’s specific problem. Biomarkers are being studied to determine an individual patient’s risk of disease progression, to identify the most appropriate treatment for each patient’s specific problem, and to monitor response to treatment. Useful biomarkers have been found in blood, from advanced MRI scans, and from synovial fluid—the fluid that lubricates and cushions joints. Our researchers have also implemented internet-based systems to foster better communication between patients and clinicians, and as tools to study the comparative effectiveness of alternative treatment strategies. Our skilled physicians provide specialized care for the treatment of conditions of the knee, hip, and shoulder. Jonathan Samuels Natalie E. Azar Rheumatologist Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas Soterios Gyftopoulos Claudette M. Lajam Hip & Knee Reconstruction Specialist Robert J. Meislin Alex Moroz Catherine N. Petchprapa Paula J. Rackoff Michael P. Recht Soumya M. Reddy Andrew S. Rokito Shoulder & Elbow Surgeon Ran Schwarzkopf Mehul R. Shah Eric J. Strauss Roy I. Davidovitch Full & Partial Knee Replacements: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ We have locations in Manhattan and on Long Island. Cardiac surgeons from specialize in that uses innovative techniques to restore blood flow through significantly diseased arteries. We are a recognized leader in coronary artery bypass graft procedures and have earned from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons a three-star rating, the highest rating possible. This reflects our patient-centered approach to care before, during, and after surgery, and how well our patients do after the procedure. A Unique Surgical Approach When minimally invasive techniques such as percutaneous coronary intervention and stenting are not enough to restore healthy blood flow to the heart, coronary artery bypass graft surgery may be recommended. This lifesaving procedure is often used to treat or prevent a heart attack. Coronary artery bypass surgery uses vessels from another part of the body to create a bypass around a blockage. For most people, coronary artery bypass graft surgery starts with an incision through the sternum, or breastbone, to access the heart—a procedure called open heart surgery. This approach is used when more than one artery needs a bypass—a double, triple, or quadruple bypass. At NYU Langone, our surgical treatment plans aim to open all blocked arteries during one procedure, a process called complete revascularization. This approach can significantly reduce the risk of future heart attack and may reduce the need for additional procedures later on. We are also pioneers in the use of arteries to create bypasses. Traditional coronary artery bypass graft surgery uses a vein to create a bypass. NYU Langone surgeons specialize in a more complex approach that uses arteries, which are more durable and provide longer-lasting results than vein bypasses, to create new blood pathways to the heart. More than 70 percent of the multiple coronary artery bypass grafts performed at NYU Langone use arterial grafts, a rate that is much higher than the national average of 15 percent, as reported by the Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Our surgical excellence and high safety standards often result in patients able to get up and walk within hours of surgery, and be back at home after two days of in-hospital monitoring. We know that people are more comfortable recovering at home, and the sooner people can go home, the quicker their overall recovery will be. For people who need only one bypass, we offer robotic-assisted coronary artery bypass graft surgery . This minimally invasive approach does not require opening the breastbone and instead is performed by positioning surgical tools through small incisions placed between the ribs in the left side of the chest. Most people leave the hospital after one to three days. Our surgeons perform more than 500 coronary artery bypass procedures per year at NYU Langone in Manhattan and in Mineola. Coronary artery bypass graft surgery can be performed along with heart valve surgery—to repair or replace damaged aortic mitral valves —and coronary stenting, to open arteries that do not require a bypass. Coronary Artery Bypass Graft for People with Heart Failure NYU Langone offers innovative treatment that combines a temporary transvalvular ventricular assist device with a coronary artery bypass graft for people who have been told that they are not candidates for surgical treatment at other hospitals due to the severity of their illness. It may allow people who have been told they need a to delay the procedure or avoid it altogether. This treatment is for people with advanced whose hearts are working at 25 percent of capacity or less. The surgeon performs the bypass, and then a second procedure is done to place a temporary ventricular assist device that takes over the pumping activity of the heart. The pump is left in place for up to 10 days, giving the heart a chance to heal from the bypass and recover function. After the pump is removed, in a bedside procedure, patients often experience increased heart function and symptom relief. Heart Bypass Surgery Recovery and Support If our patients need cardiac rehabilitation after heart bypass surgery, they are referred through NYU Langone’s . We can also connect you with programs and services that help reverse heart disease, including the Heart Healthy Nutrition Program and Exercise Physiology Program. Coronary artery bypass graft surgery is performed by our highly skilled team of cardiothoracic surgeons. Khaled F. Salhab Mikhail Vaynblat 8 Related Programs and Centers Our heart specialists provide the highest-quality of care for all cardiac conditions. We help people reduce their risk of heart disease and stroke. Our Surgical Locations NYU Langone Cardiothoracic Surgery Associates—Garden City 1300 Franklin Avenue, Suite ML2, Garden City, NY, 11530 NYU Langone Cardiothoracic Surgery Associates—Suite 10P 530 First Avenue, Suite 10P, New York, NY, 10016 NYU Langone Cardiothoracic Surgery Associates—Suite 9V 530 First Avenue, Suite 9V, New York, NY, 10016 Brooklyn Heart Patient Saves Own Life amid COVID-19 Diabetic Foot & Ankle Center 212-598-2378 212-598-6317 Living with does not have to mean living with constant diabetic foot and ankle problems, including diabetic foot ulcers , and NYU Langone’s Diabetic Foot and Ankle Center can help. Our goal is to keep foot and ankle problems from reoccurring—or preventing them from happening in the first place. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics and rehabilitation. Our program, part of , is unique in that our team includes a broad range of specialists who collaborate to provide you with the best prevention or treatment plan for your circumstances. When you visit us, you receive a full evaluation by our team. We specialize in diabetic wounds, deformities, Charcot neuroarthropathy , and bone infections, known as osteomyelitis. We offer our patients the most up-to-date treatment and a full spectrum of services, including: diabetes education diagnostic testing and radiology foot and ankle procedures options to participate in clinical trials for qualifying patients orthotics, or shoe inserts physical therapy and rehabilitation podiatry services prosthetics wound care Our dedicated medical professionals provide the most advanced treatment and specialized care for foot and ankle problems and complications in people with diabetes. Fejzo Cecunjanin Aaron R. Chidakel Nabil M. Fahim James Johnson Steven Sheskier Foot & Ankle Surgeon We provide care to thousands of patients each year—from infants to seniors—who have the simplest orthopedic conditions to the most complex. Our specialists treat people who have a wide range of bone issues, including stress fractures, deformities, and infections. We offer compassionate care for people experiencing chronic wounds in a convenient midtown Manhattan location. 212-263-7582 212-263-6351 Experts at NYU Langone’s Hand Center provide complete care for conditions and injuries of the upper extremities, such as your shoulder, thumb and fingers, wrist, elbow, and hand. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics. Our specialists are available to diagnose the entire spectrum of upper extremity problems, whether you need an evaluation or second opinion. We offer physical therapy, minimally invasive arthroscopic wrist and shoulder surgery, and reconstructive hand surgery. We treat a variety of conditions, including: acquired conditions , such as trigger finger and other acute and chronic ligament injuries, including sprains and strains involving the thumb and fingers, wrist, and elbow acute and chronic nerve compressions, such as or cubital tunnel syndrome acute and chronic tendon and nerve injuries arthritic conditions, including , and gout congenital and spastic deformities Dupuytren’s contracture fractures dislocations involving the thumb and fingers, hand, wrist, and elbow sports related injuries tumors and tumor-like masses, such as ganglion cysts We provide a variety of procedures, including custom splint fabrication, in which a certified hand therapist makes a molded splint to precisely fit your hand and your specific issue; reconstructive surgery for chronic posttraumatic problems, such as tendon transfers for nerve palsies; state-of-the-art arthroscopic surgery for any part of the arm or hand; joint replacements, including small finger joints and elbow joints; and collagenase injections for Dupuytren's contracture. Our goal is to make your visit to the Hand Center an efficient and pleasant experience and to successfully treat your musculoskeletal condition or injury. Please call to make an appointment or for more information. Our board-certified, fellowship-trained hand and upper extremity specialists evaluate and treat thousands of people each year, from infants to seniors. Omri B. Ayalon Hand & Wrist Surgeon Jadie E. De Tolla Stuart Elkowitz Jacques H. Hacquebord Nader Paksima DO, MPH Michael E. Rettig S. Steven Yang RZ Robert Zbeda Our physicians have pioneered a range of treatments that have improved the lives of people with musculoskeletal and neurological disorders. We offer expert treatment for a wide range of bone and joint conditions with unprecedented attention to patient comfort and convenience. NYU Langone Outpatient Surgery Center Our center specializes in same-day orthopedic surgery and is committed to providing the highest quality care in a comfortable environment. Download and complete our new patient questionnaire. Wide Awake Hand Surgery Becoming More Common Limb Salvage & Restoration Center 212-263-4325 Certain medical conditions, including , venous disease, and , can lead to serious conditions that affect the limbs, particularly the legs and feet. When this happens, highly specialized medical and surgical care is often needed to avoid amputation and preserve quality of life. At NYU Langone’s Limb Salvage and Restoration Center, our specialists use advanced techniques to restore healthy blood flow, promote healing, and prevent limb loss. This includes minimally invasive and surgical approaches to improve circulation and blood flow to the affected limb. We also provide the newest wound-healing treatments and offer clinical trials for promising therapies. Your treatment is coordinated by a team that includes experts in vascular surgery, wound care, podiatry, , infectious diseases, and rehabilitation. Our goal is to provide you with coordinated care that is focused on healing the source of illness and preventing limb loss whenever possible. If after considering all other treatment options, amputation is required, we use surgical techniques to preserve limb function and achieve the best possible performance with prosthetic devices. Arterial Treatment For people with peripheral arterial disease, our vascular surgeons use minimally invasive surgical techniques to remove blockages affecting blood flow to the limbs. This includes atherectomy to remove plaque that is blocking an artery, and balloon angioplasty and stenting to open a narrowed or clogged artery. Our vascular surgeons also perform arterial bypass to reroute blood around the blockage. In some cases, treatment involves a combination of these techniques. Vein Treatment When blood flow back to the heart is blocked due to chronic venous insufficiency , blood can start to pool in the legs. This can cause blood clots, pain, itching, and leg sores. Treatment may involve a combination of procedures to eliminate venous reflux caused by leaky valves that allow blood to flow in both directions, and procedures to open blocked deep veins. This includes heat-based therapies, such as laser and radiofrequency, as well as nonthermal therapies, such as special glue or foam, to treat problematic surface veins. It also includes treatments to remove blood clots, and balloon angioplasty and stenting to open blocked deep veins. Wound Healing We work with experts from the to provide comprehensive and advanced wound care. This includes advanced dermal products that help close wounds; total contact casting, which encases the wound and keeps weight off the foot as it heals; hyperbaric oxygen therapy, which delivers concentrated oxygen to the wound; and plastic surgery reconstruction to remove diseased bone or tissue. Foot Care Our podiatrists are experts in the medical and surgical management of the foot. We provide debridement to remove diseased tissue and help foot ulcers heal. When amputation is needed, we first aim to restore health to as much tissue as possible to limit the scope of the surgery. Limb Restoration Techniques When amputation is the best treatment option, our surgical team uses advanced techniques to preserve as much of the limb as possible. Working with our prosthetics experts, we develop a surgical plan that preserves nerve function and restores function with the use of the most technologically advanced prosthetic devices. Following surgery, we refer you for care in the limb loss rehabilitation program Our doctors specialize in infectious disease, orthopedic rehabilitation, plastic surgery, podiatry, vascular surgery, and wound care. Ernest S. Chiu Plastic Surgeon Jason Kim Jeffrey V. Lucido Frank L. Ross Wound Care Specialist Joseph O. Rahimian Infectious Disease Specialist Our Affiliated Programs & Centers NYU Langone Vascular and Endovascular Surgery Associates Our vascular and endovascular surgery team is one of the largest in the country. Learn More About Our Vascular and Endovascular Surgeons Our team includes physical therapists, occupational therapists, and experts in limb loss rehabilitation. Learn More About Rusk Rehabilitation We specialized in advanced care for nonhealing wounds. Learn More About the Hyperbaric and Advanced Wound Healing Center Sports Performance Testing & Programs Health & Fitness Testing & Programs Our health and fitness programs, which include personal training, can help you improve your stamina and teach you how to maximize your fitness potential. We offer weight-loss tests and programs that complement the services offered at NYU Langone’s Experts at our Sports Performance Center also offer sports performance testing , training, and special programs for runners Health and Fitness Evaluation The health and fitness evaluation is designed for people of all ages and fitness levels who wish to obtain a baseline understanding of their current health and fitness status, with the goal of preventing disease and improving health, fitness, and quality of life. The evaluation includes the following: heart rate and blood pressure measurements body fat analysis aerobic capacity test measuring oxygen consumption (VO2max or submax test is given based on the person’s health) assessment of strength and flexibility using FMS™ Based on information gathered during the evaluation, our specialists provide exercise prescriptions to improve health and fitness concerns identified during evaluation. This test may be recommended as part of your treatment plan through NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program. To register, please email SportsPerformanceCenter@NYULangone.org Duration: 90 minutes Change for Menopause Program is designed to provide participants experiencing perimenopause or menopause with tools to build resilience, tackle obstacles, and improve lifestyle behaviors. Designed by a clinical exercise physiologist and registered dietitian, the classes address such topics as motivation, setting realistic goals, and the various ways that diet and activity can affect the symptoms many women experience as they progress through menopause. In six weekly sessions, participants gather to learn, discuss, and develop strategies to improve their daily lives. Topics include the following: strengths to rely on and obstacles to overcome the science and rationale for using resistance training to improve metabolism and bone health why protein matters and how you can ensure you get the amount you need each day how to balance exercise with our daily priorities how anti-inflammation, gut health, and carbohydrates are connected sleep, stress, and strategies to overcome challenges For questions or to register, please contact Duration: 45 minutes Learn more about receiving treatment and support for menopause from a healthcare provider at the Personal Training Our registered exercise physiologists work with people who have a wide variety of fitness levels, ranging from the novice exerciser to seasoned athletes striving to reach peak performance. Personal training sessions include one-on-one time with our physiologist, who designs a program that meets your specific needs and fitness goals. We offer 30- or 60-minute single sessions or packages of up to 16 sessions. This test may be recommended as part of your treatment plan through NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program. Functional Movement Screen The Functional Movement Screen™, or FMS™, is a series of seven movements designed to identify asymmetries and muscular imbalances, weaknesses, and dysfunctional movements that could increase your risk for injury. We use the results of an FMS™ to create recommendations to help reduce injury and improve performance. Movements tested are dependent on the person’s fitness level or characteristics of the athlete’s sport. To register, please email Duration: 60 minutes Clinical Nutritional Assessments Whether the focus is on losing weight, managing diabetes, or fighting fatigue, our registered dietitians can help you achieve your personal goals. Our registered dietitians analyze your diet to create a personalized food plan aimed at optimizing health and performance. Nutrient timing, meal composition, portions, menus, recipes, and practical suggestions are crafted to meet each person’s unique needs. Registered dietitians also work closely with you to monitor and update nutrient and diet recommendations. Duration of nutrition assessment: 60 minutes Duration of nutrition follow-up: 30 or 60 minutes For questions regarding insurance coverage, please email Total Body Wellness Classes for Active Older Adults This program for adults age 60 and older focuses on strength, flexibility, and cardiovascular fitness. It is ideal for those who wish to continue progress after physical or occupational therapy or for anyone considering a new fitness routine. This test may be recommended as part of your treatment plan through NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program. Heart Rhythm Disorder Treatment More Than 30 Years’ Experience For decades, we have been a leader in the care of heart rhythm disorders in New York City. High-Volume Arrhythmia Center We provide treatment for more than 4,500 people each year who experience irregular heartbeat. The doctors at NYU Langone’s Heart Rhythm Center have an international reputation as leaders in the diagnosis and advanced treatment of virtually every type of heart rhythm disorder bradycardia , genetic heart rhythm disorders, , and other conditions that affect the heart’s electrical activity. VIDEO: Doctors at the Heart Rhythm Center use the latest medical treatments to provide advanced care for people with all forms of arrhythmia. Our team includes board-certified cardiac electrophysiologists, who are doctors that treat conditions that cause the heart to beat too fast, too slow, or in an irregular pattern. They are joined by specially trained nurse practitioners and physician assistants who provide all of the care you need, from the initial consultation to treatment and, for some people, long-term cardiac device monitoring and follow up. Our staff is available around the clock to answer your questions and respond to your needs. Heart Rhythm Disorder Care For more than 30 years, we have treated people who have some of the most difficult and complex heart rhythm disorders, and who are often referred to us by other hospitals. Ours is one of the highest-volume arrhythmia centers in the country, and research shows that centers that treat the most patients have the best outcomes. “Everyone is there for you before and after treatment. They sit with you, talk with you, and try to take care of you in the best way possible.” Diane, Age 70 Read Our Heart Rhythm Disorder Patient Stories We are leaders in the use of catheter ablation to treat AFib . We are at the forefront of innovations in heart rhythm treatment , including the leadless pacemaker and left atrial appendage occlusion device, such as WATCHMAN, a permanent heart implant that reduces the risk of stroke for people with nonvalvular AFib who cannot take blood-thinning medication. We are also home to the , through which specialized care is provided for people who have inherited arrhythmias such as Brugada syndrome, long QT syndrome, and inherited cardiomyopathy. We collaborate with echocardiologists, radiologists, cardiac interventionalists, heart failure specialists, cardiovascular surgeons, and basic and clinical scientists to develop treatment plans tailored to the specific needs of each of our patients. Advancing Arrhythmia Care Our doctors have developed innovative treatments for atrial fibrillation and are actively involved in ongoing research. Learn About Our Heart Rhythm Research Cardiac Device Management Our team provides ongoing care and monitoring for people with cardiac devices that regulate heartbeat, including pacemakers and implantable cardioverter defibrillators . We manage and evaluate devices that use cardiac leads to connect to the heart. If leads need to be removed, our experienced team uses the most advanced imaging technology available in our state-of-the-art hybrid operating rooms to ensure the highest level of safety during the lead extraction procedure The Heart Rhythm Center has an international reputation as a training center and quality care model for medical professionals and caregivers. Our main Heart Rhythm Center location is at 530 First Avenue on the sixth floor in Manhattan, and procedures are performed at Additional members of our electrophysiology team are available at the following locations, where they also provide consultation, diagnosis, and treatment for heart rhythm disorders: Heart Rhythm Center—Brooklyn , located at Heart Rhythm Center—Long Island Our doctors specialize in catheter ablation, pacemaker implantation, internal cardiac defibrillator implantation, cardiac device management, lead extraction, tilt testing for fainting spells, genetic testing, and more. Alexander Kushnir We provide advanced treatment for people with inherited cardiac conditions. We provide ongoing care for people with heart conditions present from birth. We evaluate and treat people with any stage and all types of heart failure. 212-263-3626 Experts at the Pancreas Transplant Program, a part of the , provide specialized care for people who need a pancreas or a kidney–pancreas transplant, including some people with diabetes and those who have type 1 diabetes and Types of Transplant We offer simultaneous kidney–pancreas transplant, pancreas after kidney transplant, and pancreas transplant alone. When a Pancreas Transplant Is Needed Not everyone who has diabetes needs a pancreas transplant. Here are some of those who may benefit: people with type 1 diabetes who need a or who have already received a kidney transplant people with type 1 diabetes who also experience hypoglycemic unawareness—very low blood sugar levels with no physical symptoms until they lose consciousness people with who have a low total daily insulin requirement Benefits of a Pancreas Transplant A successful pancreas transplant leaves patients insulin independent and eliminates the need to follow diabetic dietary restrictions or regularly check blood sugars. Some pancreas transplant recipients experience fewer, less-severe episodes of diabetes symptoms, such as numbness in their feet and hands. Support the Pancreas Transplant Program Make a monetary donation to our lifesaving pancreas transplant program. Pancreas Transplants We Offer Doctors at the NYU Langone Transplant Institute offer three options for pancreas transplant. Your transplant team helps you to decide which is the best for you. Simultaneous Kidney–Pancreas Transplant In a simultaneous kidney–pancreas transplant, often referred to as an SPK, a person receives a kidney and a pancreas transplant at the same time, with organs from a deceased donor. Pancreas After Kidney Transplant In a pancreas after kidney transplant, or PAK, a person receives a kidney transplant from a living donor and then, after several months of recovery, has a second surgery to receive a pancreas transplant from a deceased donor. Pancreas Transplant Alone People who have type 1 diabetes without kidney disease who experience life-threatening episodes of hypoglycemic unawareness may be candidates for a pancreas transplant alone, or PTA. Pancreas Transplant Evaluation You may be referred to the Transplant Institute by your endocrinologist or nephrologist, or you may contact us yourself. During your first visit, our team evaluates you to determine whether a pancreas or kidney–pancreas transplant is appropriate. During this medical visit, you meet with several members of the transplant team, including a nephrologist, social worker, nutritionist, and nurse coordinator. These experts guide you through the evaluation. You also meet the transplant surgeon, who explains the operation in detail. You complete blood and urine tests, a chest X-ray, a CT scan of your abdomen and pelvis, and specialized heart testing. Additionally, we require all transplant candidates to have age-appropriate cancer screenings, such as colonoscopy If our experts decide that you are a good candidate for a pancreas or kidney–pancreas transplant, we help you through the process. For people with end-stage kidney disease who have a potential living kidney donor, we facilitate evaluation of your donor and perform the living donor kidney transplant. You are also placed on the waiting list for a pancreas transplant. Once you recover from surgery, you are able to have a pancreas transplant from a deceased donor when an organ becomes available. If you do not have a kidney from a living donor, we add you to the kidney and pancreas transplant waitlist until a matching kidney and pancreas from the same deceased donor are available. In the months following a pancreas transplant, you have regular checkups with experts at the Transplant Institute. Over time, we transition your care back to your nephrologist or primary care physician but remain a resource for you and your physician to ensure that you remain in good health. We offer pancreas transplant evaluations along with pre- and post-transplant outpatient care in Manhattan, in Brooklyn, and on Long Island at and NYU Langone Surgical Associates—1300 Franklin Avenue. We are leaders in the field of pancreas transplantation. Pancreas Transplant Medical Director Hepatobiliary & Pancreatic Surgery Services Our transplant doctors may work with specialists in pancreatic surgery services. Pancreatic Disease Program Specialists in the Pancreatic Disease Program are leaders in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the pancreas. We have doctors located in Manhattan and on Long Island. To reach our Manhattan team, call 855-698-5823 . To reach our Long Island team, call 516-663-1830 About the Left Ventricular Assist Device Who Can Benefit from a Left Ventricular Assist Device LVAD Services for Referring Physicians At NYU Langone’s LVAD Program, we offer leading edge, lifesaving mechanical circulatory support for two major conditions: acute cardiogenic shock, in which the heart muscle abruptly stops working, and chronic advanced , in which the heart muscle is permanently weakened and doesn’t pump blood and oxygen throughout the body efficiently. After someone experiences acute cardiogenic shock, an LVAD, also known as a left ventricular assist device, helps circulate blood throughout the body. In chronic heart failure, an LVAD can help extend—and improve—the lives of some people, whether you are awaiting a or you are not a candidate for one. This treatment has been shown to increase patient survival, sometimes by more than five years. Through the LVAD Program, experts at offer devices approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for treating advanced heart failure. Our LVAD Program has earned advanced certification from The Joint Commission, in recognition of our commitment to safety and protocols in support of positive patient outcomes. LVAD procedures take place at the in Manhattan and in Mineola. Our team of heart failure cardiologists and cardiac surgeons, nurse practitioners, , and other specialists work together to provide personalized care before, during, and after surgery to place an LVAD. Our experts are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, through our dedicated hotline, and we monitor your progress daily to ensure that you are safely taking medications and making lifestyle changes designed to improve your overall health. NYU Langone’s left ventricular assist device experts are dedicated to treating people with heart failure. Cardiologists and surgeons at our Heart Failure Advanced Care Center specialize exclusively in diagnosing and treating heart failure. Our cardiac team helps people receiving LVAD therapy to transition to a heart transplant when appropriate. Heart Transplant Program Enhances Care for Heart Failure Transcatheter Expertise We are among the highest-volume centers for MitraClip® mitral valve repair and transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Excellence in Robotic Surgery Our doctors have performed more than 1,000 robotic mitral valve repair procedures since 2011. The cardiac team at NYU Langone’s Heart Valve Center is among the most experienced and sought-out in the country for the treatment of people with heart valve disease. We have more than 40 years of experience in heart valve repair and replacement, and are innovators in the care of people with , and tricuspid valve disease. VIDEO: Experts at the Heart Valve Center use innovative treatments and minimally invasive procedures to care for people who have mitral valve conditions. Through our , we specialize in minimally invasive and robotic surgical techniques, and complex procedures that require extensive surgical skill and expertise. Our doctors have performed more than 4,000 mitral valve repair procedures—among the most of any center in the world. , we are pioneers in nonsurgical procedures that use only a small incision in the groin to access the aortic, mitral, or tricuspid valve. Our doctors have performed more than 6,000 transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) procedures , and we are one of the highest-volume centers for mitral valve repair using MitraClip®. Heart Valve Repair and Replacement Expertise Our expertise in all heart valve surgical techniques allows us to give every person the treatment best suited to their condition. Our goal is to provide the most effective, long-term outcome that helps you return to the life you enjoy. “I feel good knowing that the procedure is done and I can live with less shortness of breath.” John, 78 Read Our Heart Valve Center Patient Stories Our surgeons were the first in the country to perform several procedures, including minimally invasive port access mitral valve repair and nonsurgical transcatheter mitral valve replacement. To continue the advancement of heart valve technologies and procedures, we are actively involved in research and offer our patients the opportunity to participate in more than a dozen Our team of doctors specializes in evaluating and treating patients with heart valve disease and has pioneered new treatment options that advance the care of patients. Robotic Mitral Valve Program Director Peter J. Neuburger Cardiac Anesthesiologist Related Heart Programs Our cardiologists use echocardiography to diagnose and manage conditions that affect the way blood moves through your heart. Learn More About Noninvasive Cardiac Imaging and Testing Our doctors use catheter-based techniques to treat coronary artery disease, valvular disease, and peripheral arterial disease. Learn More About the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory Whether you’re an elite runner or a novice, NYU Langone’s Sports Performance Center can help you improve your performance while preventing injury. We assess all aspects of your running, including training days and programming, nutrition, running mechanics, strength and flexibility, footwear, shoe orthotic inserts, and injury susceptibility. Our experts assess your running technique and offer recommendations to improve your performance and help prevent injury. We offer several running programs, including The Running Lab at NYU Langone, Runner’s Evaluation, and Marathon Prep Plan health and fitness testing The Running Lab at NYU Langone The Running Lab at NYU Langone program is based on the latest research on endurance running. Our experienced team of physical therapists, exercise physiologists, and registered dietitians provides specific recommendations designed to help you achieve your running goals. During your assessment, you receive the following one-on-one evaluations. Running Analysis We record a high definition video of your running, viewed from the front, back, and sides, and then use motion analysis software to determine how your running mechanics affect your performance. Foot and Ankle Assessment We use a series of tests and measurements to identify factors that may improve your running efficiency. Recommendations are given on the appropriate running shoe and, if necessary, orthotic inserts. Strength and Flexibility Assessment You complete a series of tests and measures designed to identify asymmetries and imbalances that can increase your risk for injury. Recommendations for improvement are provided. Training Program Review You meet with an exercise physiologist to review your current training routine and develop strategies to improve your performance, decrease the risk of injury, and maintain your running routine for years to come. Nutrition Evaluation We address all of your nutritional needs, including in-season and off-season guidance, information on nutritional supplements, optimal nutrient timing, and weight loss considerations, as well as what to eat before, during, and after a race. Group Review of Running Video After your evaluation is complete, you meet with our clinicians to review the running videos and receive initial recommendations. Personalized Final Report Each participant receives an individualized report that includes a detailed summary and analysis of results and customized recommendations. The report includes the following: detailed assessments from all evaluations training and conditioning program recommendations to address areas of improvement cues for real-time training an internet link to your running video guidance on nutrition, footwear, and orthotic inserts You may choose to come back for reevaluations or follow-up appointments. You meet with an exercise physiologist to review your progress and fine-tune your program of exercises and real-time running cues. Nutritional follow-up with our registered dietitians are also available. To register, please email Duration: 180 minutes Runner’s Evaluation The Runner’s Evaluation is designed for runners of all ages and abilities to help improve performance and prevent injury. During your assessment, you receive a one-on-one evaluation with an exercise physiologist that includes the following. We record a high definition video of your running and use motion analysis software to determine how your mechanics affect performance. You complete a Functional Movement Screen ™ that includes a series of tests and measurements designed to identify asymmetries and imbalances that can increase your risk of injury. Based on the results of this assessment, recommendations for improvement are provided. Your current training routine is reviewed by an exercise physiologist, who develops strategies to help you maintain your running routine for years to come. detailed assessments from the running analysis and Functional Movement Screen , including still shots of your running video displaying key areas of focus for improvement an online link to your running video running cues for real-time training exercise program recommendations to address areas for improvement Additional Running Programs In addition to The Running Lab and Runner's Evaluation, we offer the following programs. Strength and Conditioning Class for Runners This tailored cross training program is designed for runners of all levels. Experts at The Running Lab take runners through a research-based exercise program to target key muscles and joints proven to improve running mechanics and economy. This class incorporates strengthening exercises, conditioning drills, and running form instruction. To register, please email AlterG Anti-Gravity Treadmill The AlterG Anti-Gravity Treadmill incorporates the same technology the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) uses to train its astronauts. The technology reduces impact on the legs and knees following injuries or during training. allows injured athletes to use their normal running form during their recovery and seamlessly transition back to full participation without the need to introduce water or other forms of cross training to preserve fitness. The AlterG can also be used to improve running performance by designing super maximal speeds with decreased risk of injury from impact. To register, please email Duration: 30-minute and 60-minute sessions available Injuries We Treat Nonsurgical Treatment Sports Medicine Center Patient Stories When a hockey player is injured, he or she often has one goal in mind: getting back to the game as quickly as possible. At NYU Langone’s Hockey Center, our medical experts are prepared to treat all injuries that happens on the ice. Hockey is a contact sport, and injuries happen. You may sprain, strain, or tear a joint or ligament, and need orthopedic surgical care. You may experience a deep cut to the face, and need a plastic surgeon to minimize scarring, or an ophthalmologist or maxillofacial surgeon to treat an eye injury. Or maybe you suffered a concussion , and you need an expert assessment from NYU Langone’s to determine when it is safe to return to play. Our team of experts, many of whom have years of experience caring for professional hockey players, can address all of these medical needs and more. VIDEO: Madison Packer, a forward for the Metropolitan Riveters of the National Women's Hockey League, discusses her injury and her triumphant return to the ice. At the Hockey Center, our holistic approach begins with a preseason evaluation to help prevent injury. If an injury occurs, we look at the player, his or her goals, and the extent of an injury. A teen playing on a youth league with dreams of playing professionally may need a different treatment plan than an older person who plays on an adult league. There’s nuance to every injury, and subtleties to each treatment. When the season ends, we can recommend a fitness routine to help keep your skills sharp and body ready. Whether you or your child play on a youth league, at the college level, recreationally, or professionally, our experts develop a treatment plan that reflects your specific goals. Rehabilitation and Sports Performance Training After treatment for an initial injury, your physician might recommend physical rehabilitation to help your recovery. This can include working with physical or occupational therapists from NYU Langone’s Services are also available at our . By combining research with the most advanced testing equipment, our exercise physiologists and sports psychologists provide the training and assistance that can help you improve your game and achieve your potential. The Hockey Center is led by Dr. Andrew Feldman Dr. Laith Jazrawi . Dr. Feldman was team physician for the New York Rangers for 14 years. Dr. Jazrawi is chief of sports medicine at NYU Langone. In addition, the Hockey Center is supported by the following physicians: Michael J. Alaia, MD Dennis A. Cardone, DO Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas, MD Specialists in the following areas also provide care to our patients: dentistry, emergency medicine, neurology, neurosurgery, ophthalmology, oral maxillofacial surgery, otolaryngology, pediatric orthopedics, plastic surgery, psychiatry, radiology, and rehabilitation medicine. If you have experienced a hockey-related injury or are interested in a second opinion, please call 877-769-8632 Golfers who want to improve their game or prevent injury are invited to participate in the Golf Lab, part of NYU Langone’s Sports Performance Center. The Golf Lab team , which includes physical therapists, occupational therapists, exercise physiologists, and golf professionals, uses the latest scientific research to develop personalized recommendations that improve ball control, performance, and consistency on the course. We offer group and one-on-one golf evaluations that consist of three stations at which you work with a Golf Lab team member. The evaluations include stability and mobility, video golf swing analysis, and review of golf video. Stability and Mobility Evaluation Your Golf Lab experience starts with a series of golf-specific tests and measures. These are designed to identify asymmetries and imbalances that can affect your performance and consistency and increase your risk for injury. We assess your body’s stability and mobility, including at the ankle, hip, pelvis, thoracic spine, and shoulder. We also evaluate how your game has been affected by injuries such as , groin strain, knee pain rotator cuff tear Video Golf Swing Analysis Golf Lab specialists use video analysis software to identify movement sequencing and movement patterns that contribute to ball-flight direction, velocity performance, and injury prevention. Review of Golf Video Upon completion of the evaluation, we discuss your results and identify your mobility, stability, and swing characteristics. This enables us to provide you with exercises and drills that target your specific areas for improvement. After your session, you receive a personalized final report that includes the following: detailed assessments from all stations exercises that improve golf-specific movements videos of golf drills you can practice on your own online access to your evaluation video Golf Strength and Conditioning Class This tailored golf assessment is designed for golfers who want to improve their performance or prevent injury. Golf Lab experts take golfers through a research-based exercise program that targets key muscles and joints proven to improve swing mechanics. This class incorporates mobility, stability, and power exercises so golfers can improve timing, club–head velocity, and force transfer. To register for this weekly class, please email Exercise physiologist Heather Milton conducts an evaluation at the Golf Lab. For more information on golf services or to schedule a one-on-one evaluation, please call 646-501-7109 We have doctors in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Westchester County, and on Long Island. Platelet-Rich Plasma Injections At NYU Langone’s Center for Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine, we offer the most advanced evidence-based biologics and other innovative therapies as part of a comprehensive treatment plan for musculoskeletal conditions and injuries. Biologics are nonsurgical therapies often derived from blood, proteins, and other substances that occur naturally in the body. Biologic therapies stimulate the body to heal, regrow tissue, and reduce inflammation. This may lead to less pain, accelerated healing, and a quicker return to activities you enjoy. NYU Langone’s excellence in regenerative orthopedic medicine stems from our early and ongoing research investigating the safest and most effective treatments for patients. Our experts work to exceed rigorous quality and safety standards set by the state and federal government. Backed by the technology, expertise, and resources of a world-class academic medical center, our team offers the most effective regenerative therapies as part of a total treatment plan for many musculoskeletal conditions, including the following: Achilles tendon injury ankle cartilage lesions bursitis and tendinitis elbow sprains and strains , including tennis and golfer’s elbow hip labral tears knee articular cartilage injuries meniscus tears osteoarthritis of the ankle, hip shoulder labral tears tendinopathies of the ankle, including those of the posterior tibial tendon and the peroneal tendon rotator cuff tears Platelet-rich plasma, stem cells, and hyaluronic acid—used separately or with other treatments—are the most common biologics we use in orthopedic care. We also offer innovative nonbiologic therapies to help speed healing, repair damaged tissues, and improve recovery after surgery. We take a personalized approach to every patient we treat, tailoring treatments to their specific condition. Platelet-Rich Plasma , or PRP, is a solution containing concentrated amounts of platelets, the cell fragments in blood that cause clotting. Platelets also stimulate healing by releasing substances called growth factors. When platelet-rich plasma is injected directly into tissue or an injured joint, it may speed healing. Stem Cells are a special type of cell that can, under the right conditions, develop into other types of cell in the body, such as muscle, bone, or cartilage. When a serum containing concentrated amounts of stems cells is injected into diseased or damaged tissue, it reduces inflammation and may encourage tissue to heal and regrow. Hyaluronic Acid Healthy joints contain a thick liquid called synovial fluid, which keeps them lubricated and moving freely without pain. Hyaluronic acid is an important component of synovial fluid, giving it a thick consistency. When hyaluronic acid breaks down, which is a normal part of aging, the synovial fluid thins and is less able to effectively lubricate the joints. Our experts use a hyaluronic acid solution, injecting it directly into the joint, to treat osteoarthritis of the ankle, knee, hip, and shoulder. The hyaluronic acid rethickens the synovial fluid and improves the joint’s gliding motion, usually for several months. Collagen Patches For some conditions that require surgery—such as a rotator cuff tear or Achilles tendon injury—our experts may place a small patch of collagen-based material on the damaged tissue during surgery. Collagen is a plentiful protein in the body and a major component of ligaments, tendons, and muscles. Because your body uses collagen to repair these tissues, the use of a collagen patch may encourage healing and lessen pain after surgery. Shock Wave Therapy Our experts also use shock wave therapy, a noninvasive and nonbiologic treatment that focuses high-energy sound waves on damaged tissue, which in turn speeds healing. Shock wave therapy is used for conditions such as shoulder labral tears, stress fractures in the foot, and tendon problems in the ankle. Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine Research Our experts conduct research studies investigating innovative regenerative medicine therapies. These emerging treatments may be available to you through participation in a clinical trial. Your doctor may discuss these opportunities with you. Doctors at the Center for Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine work with you to establish a comprehensive treatment plan that includes regenerative therapies for musculoskeletal conditions and injuries. Natasha N. Desai Julia L. Iafrate Maria Janakos John G. Kennedy 18 Stem Cells & Other Injectables: Solutions or Scams? Achilles Tendon Tears: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Podcast View All Locations (11) 646-501-7223 We’re ranked among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics and rehabilitation by Our orthopedic surgeons perform more than 4,000 procedures each year to treat all types of musculoskeletal conditions. Experts in Nonsurgical Options Our sports medicine physicians specialize in the latest therapies that can replace or delay the need for surgery. When an injury or pain keeps you from the activities you love, doctors at the Sports Medicine Center—part of at NYU Langone—are here to help you get back to your daily routine. We provide care for acute and chronic sports-related and overuse injuries at many convenient locations throughout the New York City area. Rock Climber Back on Her Feet After Traumatic Injuries Secrets of Longevity: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Hip Pain in Athletes ‘The Bone Whisperers’ VIDEO: Dr. Laith Jazrawi, Dr. Michael Alaia, Dr. Kirk Campbell, Dr. Eric Strauss, and Dr. Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas offer an overview on sports medicine, common injuries, and different treatments. Care for Sports Injuries and Chronic Orthopedic Conditions We are one of the highest-volume sports medicine centers in the country. Our experts include orthopedic surgeons and primary care sports medicine doctors who diagnose and treat more than 35,000 people each year for injuries affecting every major joint, including the shoulder, knee, elbow, hip, and ankle. They partner with rehabilitation and sports performance experts to create a comprehensive treatment plan customized to fit your goals. We provide comprehensive care to athletes and active people to improve their health and reach peak performance. “Since my knee surgery, I’ve climbed 4,000-foot peaks and walked down the aisle at my wedding in 4-inch heels—things I never dreamed of being able to do before.” Kate, Age 30 Read All Sports Medicine Patient Stories We provide care for acute injuries such as sprains, fractures, torn ligaments, and ruptured tendons, as well as chronic conditions that may result from repetitive strain or degenerative disease, including and osteoarthritis. Experts in Surgical and Nonsurgical Treatment Our doctors perform more than 4,000 surgeries each year to treat all types of musculoskeletal conditions. Types of surgery for sports medicine injuries and other orthopedic conditions include cartilage repair and restoration, as well as minimally invasive procedures such as arthroscopic surgery. Our doctors also understand that surgery is not always the answer. They often recommend nonsurgical treatments to address injuries such as ankle instability tennis elbow , golfer’s elbow, tendinitis, rotator cuff injuries shoulder dislocations . We offer the most advanced treatment options—including shock wave therapy and injectable orthobiologic treatments—all as outpatient care, so you can go home the same day and recover where you feel most comfortable. Orthobiologic treatments involve using an intensified concentration of substances that are naturally found in the body, such as stem cells or platelets, to help musculoskeletal injuries heal quicker. We also offer physical therapy programs. Laura Denoble and Dr. David Pereia are part of a larger Sports Medicine Center team whose focus is providing medical and surgical care for a wide range of injuries and conditions. We take equal pride in helping everyone from professional athletes to everyday New Yorkers recover from injury and meet the challenges of their busy lives. We have special expertise in treating hockey players and competitive figure skaters, and we also treat elite dancers in the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater in collaboration with NYU Langone’s Specialized Sports Medicine Care for Women Sports medicine experts at NYU Langone’s specialize in helping athletic and active women heal from injury. Informed by the latest scientific research, we tailor our treatments specifically for women to provide you with high-quality, personalized care and prevent future injuries from happening. Our orthopedic surgeons and sports medicine doctors care for people with sports medicine injuries, as well as complex bone and joint conditions. Berkcan Akpinar Lawrence G. Chang Calogero Gambino Alexander Golant Willy Gonzalez Stuart J. Hershon Gregory R. Holt Jack Italiano Daniel J. Kaplan James M. Kipnis Ariana Lott View All 39 Doctors & 39 Related Programs and Resources Sports Medicine Patient Guide to Surgery Prepare for sports medicine surgery and learn about what to expect during your recovery. Sports Medicine Surgery e-Guide Receive information tailored to your specific surgery date and your progress through the recovery process. We help both elite athletes and fitness novices achieve their health and fitness goals by creating personalized training and conditioning programs. Our surgeons perform thousands of surgeries a year, from the common to the complex. We provide world-class treatment for conditions involving bones, muscles, and joints. Our Locations (11) 339 East 38th Street, New York, NY, 10016 212-263-1515 212-263-1171 212-598-6000 240 East 18th Street, New York, NY, 10003 NYU Langone Orthopedic Associates—Lake Success 1999 Marcus Avenue, Suite 202, New Hyde Park, NY, 11042 516-467-8600 If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please Meniscus Tears: Is Surgery Necessary? ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Nutrition & Surgical Recovery: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Hip Replacements: ‘The Bone Whisperers,’ Episode 9 Kids & Scoliosis: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Wrist Cysts & Bumps: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Rotator Cuff Injuries & Treatments: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Schedule with a Specialist We see patients in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and on Long Island. 855-698-2220 Concussion Center Rehabilitation Services Concussion Center Care Team At NYU Langone’s Concussion Center, we know that this form of traumatic brain injury may lead to long-term consequences if not treated properly. Concussions can happen anytime: when a teen takes a tough hit during a football game, an older adult falls and hits his or her head, or a driver gets whiplash during a car accident. If you’ve experienced a , getting the right treatment can help you recover quickly and more completely. Call Our Concussion Line To schedule a consultation or to learn more about care at NYU Langone’s Concussion Center, please call Our experts offer superior diagnosis and treatment, as well as rehabilitation services to help get you back to doing what you love. VIDEO: Learn more about concussions and the services offered by experts at NYU Langone’s Concussion Center. Expert Diagnosis and Treatment care team at our Concussion Center guides you through every step of the treatment process. Your journey may start with our emergency room experts or during your initial meeting with our medical leaders in neurology, physical medicine and rehabilitation (physiatry), or sports medicine, who are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, and rehabilitation. We conduct a thorough examination to check your balance, coordination, and vision. We also perform cognitive testing to determine whether your memory, concentration, or language skills have been affected. Depending on the severity of the injury, our doctors may recommend imaging tests, such as an MRI or CT scan, the results of which are thoroughly reviewed by our neuroradiologists. Following this medical assessment, we develop a treatment plan that may include connecting you with the specialists who can best help with your recovery. As part of at NYU Langone, we are committed to delivering the most advanced medical treatment to our patients while also providing the support you need to achieve a full recovery. If you’ve experienced a concussion, getting the right treatment can help you recover quickly and more completely. To schedule a consultation or to learn more about our care, please call us at or email us at nyuconcussion@nyulangone.org . Our concussion experts also offer video visits for people who prefer to receive care in the privacy and comfort of their own home. Coordination of Your Concussion Care Concussion Care Find out more about how our experts diagnose and treat people with concussions. Learn More About Our Treatment Approach To help coordinate your care, we have a clinical coordinator and program manager dedicated to answering your questions and guiding your clinical care, and also help you make appointments and access services in a timely manner. If you need to see an endocrinologist, headache specialist, neurosurgeon, orthopedist, otolaryngologist, pain management specialist, psychiatrist, or sleep medicine expert—or if you require psychological services from experts at NYU Langone’s —we can facilitate this care. Care for children and adolescents is provided through Concussion Research We are at the forefront of concussion research. Current research focuses on the impact of a concussion on vision and brain processing, rapid sideline screening, group therapy treatments, and better ways to use imaging to understand the pathology of concussion. Our researchers are working to establish a standardized approach to treating children and adults with head injuries that is firmly grounded in evidence-based research. For information about current research studies on concussion or to participate in our clinical trials, please contact us at concussionresearch@nyulangone.org Community Outreach Our specialists are available to participate in public educational presentations for school personnel, healthcare providers, parents, and community organizations. Please email concussionoutreach@nyulangone.org for more information or to schedule a speaker. Our experts in neurology, physical medicine and rehabilitation, and sports medicine work together to create personalized care plans. Shae Datta Brian S. Im Siham D. Accacha Pediatric Endocrinologist Alexander Allen Prin Amorapanth AB Aishat A. Bakare-Okpala Pediatric Neurologist Laura J. Balcer Neha Bansal Jaydeep M. Bhatt Sarah M. Bobker Headache Specialist Myrna I. Cardiel CC Catherine Cho Neuro-Otologist Marvin T. Dang Family Medicine Specialist AD Andrew Dugue Robert J. Femia Steven R. Flanagan Farng-Yang A. Foo 212-598-6054 Injury Prevention Programs Our Dance Medicine Team Our Dance Clients Financial Assistance The Harkness Center for Dance Injuries at enhances the health, wellbeing, and quality of life of dancers and dance companies Experts at the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries provide treatment for dance-related injuries and conditions. Members of our comprehensive medical team—physical medicine and rehabilitation doctors, orthopedic surgeons, athletic trainers, physical therapists, and acupuncturists—are actively involved in into dance-related injuries and are dedicated to providing dancers with the following services: Resources for Dancers During the COVID-19 Pandemic We’ve updated our Financial Assistance page with resources for dancers during the 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. consultations for pain related to stress fractures , ligament injuries, and other dance-related conditions through our Dance Clinic physical therapy to help you recover from an injury and avoid future incidents to help keep you dancing emergency care for injuries such as bone fractures and ankle sprains with our doctors, physical therapists, and licensed clinicians, including for injury prevention assessments , including numerous outreach, educational, research, and clinical services, to the performing arts community at NYU Langone, we provide complete care that meets your medical, rehabilitation, and performance needs. We accept many types of health insurance. is available for those who qualify. No professional dancer or pre-professional dance student is turned away due to an inability to pay. Contact Us and Stay in Touch To schedule an in-office appointment or a video visit, please call . For more information about our services, you can call Harkness@NYULangone.org . Appointments for our Dance Clinic, physical therapy, and injury prevention assessments must be made by phone. You can also sign up to receive our e-newsletter In Contact , as well as announcements about our clinical, educational, and research events, programs, and services for the dance and healthcare communities. Also, we invite you to follow us on We are leaders in dance medicine research . We also offer online and live continuing medical education (CME) and continuing education unit (CEU) certificate courses. Launched in 2020, the Harkness Center’s Postgraduate Performing Arts Physical Therapy Fellowship Program has achieved full accreditation with the American Board of Physical Therapy Residency and Fellowship Education (ABPTRFE). We offer live and online education courses for dance and healthcare professionals. At the forefront of our educational programming is DanceMedU , an accredited online course series. We offer Principles of Dance Medicine: Clinical Management of the Dancer Patient for healthcare professionals and the dance community. live education courses for healthcare and dance professionals provide evidence-based research findings, explore dance medicine as a potential career path, and provide education on injury prevention and dancer wellness. Our physical therapists have special expertise in treating dancers. Patricia R. Cavaleri Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapist Sarah E. Edery-Altas MH Mark Hall MSPT Heather Heineman Rebecca Kesting Marla Mcreynolds-Waldron Sarah Plumer-holzman Giovanna M. Salerno Emily R. Sandow Melvin Varghese Donald J. Rose David S. Weiss 14 The New York Daily News: Harkness Center Helps Injured Dancers Get Back into the Spotlight Read More from the New York Daily News Dance Magazine: I Resolve To... Read More from Dance Magazine Dance Teacher Magazine: Safe, Sensational Flexibility Read More from Dance Teacher Magazine Dance Informa: Dance Injury Prevention 101: Your Friendly Neighborhood Athletic Trainer Read More from Dance Informa Refinery29: The Dancer’s Hack to Preventing Workout Injuries Read More from Refinery 29 Harkness Center for Dance Injuries—Dance Clinic 318 East 23rd Street, New York, NY, 10010 212-598-7613 Harkness Center for Dance Injuries—Biomechanics Research Laboratory 380 Second Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY, 10010 Harkness Center for Dance Injuries—Physical Therapy Clinic 614 Second Avenue, Suite 2G, New York, NY, 10016 , we use advanced technologies and new kinds of catheter techniques, including those developed from our own research, to eliminate chronic heart rhythm disorders deemed untreatable by other centers. Cardiac electrophysiologist Dr. Larry A. Chinitz performs surgery. During your initial evaluation at the Heart Rhythm Center, our experienced team determines the impact of the , or abnormal heart rhythm, and whether treatment is needed. For some people with heart rhythm disorders, no treatment may be required. For others, medication and lifestyle changes can be effective. When necessary, catheter-based treatments or cardiac devices may be recommended. Treatments for Heart Rhythm Conditions We provide the following medical interventions to treat heart rhythm disorders. Catheter Ablation Catheter ablation is a minimally invasive way to eliminate a variety of arrhythmias. Doctors use a special catheter to deliver radiofrequency energy that can correct the abnormal heartbeat signals causing the arrhythmia without having to perform open heart surgery. For many people, this procedure cures an arrhythmia without requiring additional medication or surgery. A pacemaker is used to treat people who have a slow heart rate, known as . NYU Langone is one of the sites for an international clinical trial evaluating the next generation of leadless pacemakers, which eliminate the wires that can be associated with infections and other complications. Dr. Larry Chinitz , director of the Heart Rhythm Center, is the national principal investigator for the trial. Left Atrial Appendage Occlusion Device The left atrial appendage occlusion device (LAAOD) reduces the risk of in people with by stopping blood clots from traveling out of the heart and to the brain. This treatment, which includes the WATCHMAN™ device and others undergoing clinical development, are recommended for patients who are unable to tolerate anticoagulation therapy. Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) sends an electric shock to convert serious , such as tachycardia and fibrillation, back to a normal, slower, and regular heartbeat. ICDs significantly reduce the risk of death in people with these types of ventricular arrhythmias. These devices are now available in models that are transvenous, or inserted through a vein, and subcutaneous, or placed under the skin. Medication and Lifestyle Management For some people, medication and lifestyle changes can reduce symptoms and improve quality of life. You may be prescribed medications that lower blood pressure and reduce your risk of blood clots. We recommend a heart-healthy diet and regular exercise for all of our patients. We also have an active screening process to identify patients with obstructive sleep apnea , a cardiac risk factor. Follow-Up Care for Heart Rhythm Conditions For patients who receive a pacemaker or defibrillator, our device and arrhythmia monitoring center is staffed by clinicians who coordinate care between outpatient management and hospital-based procedures. Our team is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. In rare cases, the leads that deliver electrical energy from a pacemaker or ICD to the heart need to be removed. The Heart Rhythm Center is a leader in lead extraction and management , and one of only four centers in the United States that perform extractions. At the Sports Performance Center at NYU Langone, we offer performance testing and programs to help you maximize your athletic ability, movement efficiency, and musculoskeletal conditioning while reducing the risk of injury. We also offer and special programs for Our performance testing programs provide our experts with the information they need to create your personalized fitness program. Resting Metabolic Rate The resting metabolic rate test determines the amount of energy, or calories, your body uses at rest. To determine this measurement, a plastic hood is placed safely on your head and face. This controlled environment allows us to analyze how much oxygen your body uses and how much carbon dioxide your body produces to determine caloric expenditure and energy substrate utilization in a resting state. We provide a review of your test results and recommendations based on your caloric needs. This service can also complement your treatment plan as part of NYU Langone’s Aerobic Capacity Test (VO2max) The aerobic capacity test (VO2max) measures aerobic capacity. It tells you the maximal rate at which your heart and lungs are able to provide oxygen to exercising muscles, and how much work your muscles are able to do while using that oxygen as the primary energy source. The aerobic capacity test is the leading indicator of aerobic fitness and health status. You’ll learn just how efficient you are at using energy supplies for a long run, ride, or swim. You’ll also discover which energy systems you need to work on to improve your performance. This test may be recommended as part of your treatment plan through NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program. Lactate Threshold Testing Lactate threshold testing is for the athlete looking to perfect his or her training. This test determines the point at which your body can no longer supply oxygen for energy. This leads to increased lactate production, the primary marker for fatigue onset. This is used to determine baseline fitness and training zones to improve performance, as well as to track training program effectiveness. To register, please email Anaerobic Power Assessment The anaerobic power assessment is essential for those wanting to improve or optimize their power and speed. Athletes exert maximal force over a short period of time to assess the body’s ability to generate the power needed for optimal performance in their sport. Testing modality is selected based on the athlete’s sport. To register, please email Sports Performance Evaluation Sports performance evaluation is designed for athletes of all ages and abilities who want to improve performance and prevent injury. The evaluation is customized to your specific sport and includes the following: baseline measurements, including resting heart rate, body composition, and blood pressure biomechanical video analysis to examine specific characteristics of body mechanics that affect performance and are essential to your sport assessment of strength and flexibility using the sport-specific screens, custom developed for each sport energy system utilization assessments using aerobic or anaerobic capacity tests assessment of lung function using research-grade testing equipment maximal muscular strength and endurance test as applicable to a specific sport We provide performance evaluation for athletes in all sports, with special expertise in the following: triathlons hockey golf soccer basketball football martial arts skiing and snowboarding tennis Based on information gathered during the evaluation, our specialists provide training recommendations and techniques to improve performance and prevent potential injuries. To register, please email Duration: 120 minutes Return to Sports Evaluation After Lower Extremity Injury This return to sports evaluation is designed for people who are questioning whether it is safe for them to return to their sport after an injury or surgery to their hip, knee, or ankle. The comprehensive assessment includes the following: a landing error score system that determines whether athletes show neuromuscular or strength deficits during drop–jump movements a step-down test that determines hip and core stability in single leg movement a hop test that compares stability, strength, and movement control between the right and left legs a modified Bunkie test, a type of functional strength test, that identifies which planes of stability and strength are limited a Biodex isokinetic test that compares muscle strength balance of the right and left legs After conducting these tests, our specialists identify any risk of increased injury and advise whether athletes are ready to return to their sport. To register, please email Return to Sports Evaluation After Upper Extremity Injury This return to sports evaluation is designed for people who are questioning whether it is safe for them to return to their sport after an injury or surgery to their arm, forearm, wrist, and hand. The comprehensive evaluation includes the following: assessment of wrist, elbow, and shoulder mobility dynamic stability assessment upper body strength assessment functional performance assessment After conducting these tests, our specialists identify any risk of increased injury and advise whether athletes are ready to return to their sport. Learn more about our return to sports after upper extremity injury assessment To register, please call Duration of post-evaluation review: 30 minutes Biomechanical Analysis Biomechanical analysis simulates movements of your sport to develop a training program to prevent injury and enhance performance. Athletes are filmed using Dartfish Video Motion software to capture joint angles and body kinematics at each phase of movement. Our specialists also perform an FMS™ to identify asymmetries, weakness, and limitations. Based on results, you are provided with exercise recommendations and techniques to improve performance and prevent potential injuries. To register, please email Biomechanical Analysis Re-Evaluation Six to eight weeks after completing a biomechanical analysis of an athlete’s performance in a specific sport, we recommend that the athlete return so that we can evaluate progress as performance improves. To register, please email Titleist Evaluation The Titleist Performance Institute™ (TPI) golf movement screen is a performance-based physical movement screen specifically designed for golfers. Clients are taken through 12 golf-related movement patterns in order to identify faulty stability patterns and altered mobility that may impact the accuracy and efficiency of a golfer’s swing. Based on results, corrective exercises are given to help prevent injury and improve the golfer’s game. The screen is designed for golfers at all levels. To register, please email Sport-Specific Training We offer athletes at all levels of competition customized, sport-specific training to maximize sports performance. We offer 60-minute single sessions or packages of up to 16 sessions. To register, please email Sports Nutritional Assessments Our registered dietitians can help you achieve your personal fitness goals. Your diet is analyzed to create a personalized food plan aimed at optimizing health and athletic performance. Nutrient timing, meal composition, portions, menus, recipes, and practical suggestions are crafted to meet each athlete’s unique needs. Registered dietitians work closely with you to monitor and update nutrient and diet recommendations. Sports Psychology Our sports psychologist focuses on optimizing individual athletic performance. Goals include the following: improving focus and concentration removing any interference that impedes performance cultivating factors that can enable peak performance understanding how to approach activity from a holistic perspective developing mindfulness, relaxation, and joyful performance promoting awareness of automatic response patterns learning strategies to compensate for obstacles to optimal performance The client receives individualized short-term, intermediate, and long-term goals as well as techniques to confidently and successfully address specific goals. Goal programming includes weekly evaluation of progress, online training logs, and a personality inventory to identify the best way to increase motivation and improve attitude. Sport psychology services benefit novice to elite athletes and teams. To register, please email Duration of sports psychology assessment: 60 minutes Duration of sports psychology follow-up: 50 minutes Blood Flow Restriction Training Blood flow restriction training is a rehabilitation technique performed by our experienced clinicians that can accelerate muscle healing following an injury. During a therapy session, your rehabilitation specialist guides you through a series of exercises that incorporate blood flow restriction using safely controlled tourniquet pressure. This technique reduces recovery time so you are able to start exercising sooner in your rehabilitation journey. It’s not recommended for people who are pregnant or have a history of deep vein thrombosis, varicose veins, or untreated heart disease. You do not need a referral from a doctor, but our therapists perform an evaluation to make sure this therapy is right for you. Anti-Gravity Treadmill Training Anti-gravity treadmill training is a rehabilitation technique that allows you to walk or run without bearing your full weight so you can exercise without exacerbating an injury. This training technique can also help you improve form and speed. During a therapy session, your specialist determines how intense you want your workout to be, based on your weight, medical history, and goals. It is recommended for people who are interested in maintaining cardiovascular fitness and range of motion as they heal from a lower-extremity injury. To register, please email Duration: 30 or 60 minutes We have doctors in Manhattan and Brooklyn and on Long Island. Doctors at NYU Langone’s Pancreatic Disease Program are recognized leaders in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the pancreas and caring for people who have or are at risk for these conditions. We treat you as a whole person—with the aim not only to improve your health but also to support your wellbeing. Our team specializes in treating people with benign and malignant, or cancerous, diseases of the pancreas, including pancreatitis , pancreatic cysts, pancreatic tumors, and—in close collaboration with our team of experts at — . In addition, we offer genetic testing and counseling for people who may be at increased risk of developing pancreatic cancer due to family history or other risk factors. Personalized, Comprehensive Care Our multidisciplinary team of experts includes gastroenterologists and advanced endoscopists, pancreatic surgeons, oncology specialists, radiologists, and others who bring a patient-centered, comprehensive approach to your care. We use the most sophisticated testing to provide you with a timely, accurate, and specific diagnosis, which is essential for effective treatment. We then develop a treatment plan that is tailored to your individual health and needs. Preventive care is a cornerstone of our mission. Our team is expert in advanced endoscopic and surgical procedures that can prevent precancerous cysts from progressing to cancer, as well as strategies that help prevent the recurrence of pancreatitis and other conditions. Advanced Treatment Options Because we are part of a world-class academic medical center, we offer the latest and most innovative medical and surgical treatments as well as the newest therapies being evaluated in clinical trials. Our highly skilled advanced endoscopy team performs state-of-the-art endoscopic procedures to diagnose and treat pancreatitis, pancreatic cysts, and some pancreatic tumors. Some pancreatic conditions may require surgery. Our internationally renowned hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgeons are among the most experienced in the world. Together they have performed thousands of complex surgeries, including pancreaticoduodenectomy or Whipple procedure—a highly specialized procedure to remove cancer from the head of the pancreas—as well as total, distal, and central pancreatectomies. In addition, members of our surgical team are prominent in the field for their skill and expertise in removing advanced pancreatic tumors typically considered inoperable. Our team is experienced in minimally invasive surgical procedures, including robotic-assisted and laparoscopic approaches, as well as traditional open surgery—all with excellent patient outcomes. We also specialize in pancreas auto-islet transplantation for treatment of chronic pancreatitis. In this procedure the diseased pancreas is removed, but the islet cells—cells that produce insulin—are returned to your liver. An auto-islet transplant reduces the risk of developing diabetes after a pancreatectomy. Treatment for Pancreatic Cancer For people who have pancreatic cancer, our multidisciplinary team provides the most advanced diagnostic and treatment options available. We tailor every therapeutic regimen we use, including surgery, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, and radiation therapy, to each person’s specific health condition and needs. Clinical Support Services The NYU Langone’s Pancreatic Disease Program team understands that pancreatic diseases can affect different aspects of your health and wellbeing. We offer a comprehensive approach to your care that includes pain management, nutrition counseling, and psychosocial support, which addresses the behavioral, social, and psychological aspects of living with pancreatic disease. Our experts are at the forefront of using clinical trials to evaluate the effectiveness of promising new therapies and interventions for pancreatic conditions. People receiving care through our program gain access to these studies. Your doctor may discuss whether enrolling in a clinical trial is right for you. View our active trials in the following areas: For questions about our pancreatic cancer clinical trials, contact Pamela Baga, NP, at Pamela.Baga@NYULangone.org or Chelsea Garcia, senior clinical research coordinator, at Chelsea.Garcia@NYULangone.org For questions about clinical trials for other pancreatic conditions, contact Emil Agarunov at Emil.Agarunov@NYULangone.org Pancreatic Disease Research Our team is helping to advance our understanding of pancreatic diseases, discover ways to detect them earlier, and design new, more effective treatments. As part of these efforts, we offer every person we treat the opportunity to participate in our long-term research. The Pancreatic Disease Program is led by gastroenterologist and advanced endoscopy specialist Tamas A. Gonda, MD ; medical oncologist ; and surgeon Christopher Wolfgang, MD, PhD Sports Performance Center Team The Sports Performance Center team is made up of experts with a depth and breadth of knowledge and experience in exercise physiology, sports psychology, and nutrition. Heather A. Milton, MS, RCEP, CSCS, Exercise Physiologist Supervisor Ms. Milton is a board-certified clinical exercise physiologist, Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS ), and Certified Cancer Exercise Trainer (CET). She develops specialized programs to help athletes reach their maximum potential and ability. She also creates unique and motivational programs to inspire health and fitness clients, and designs injury prevention programs for at-risk athletes. In addition to performing a variety of metabolic and biomechanical evaluations, Ms. Milton is a founding member of the Return to Sports program and the . Ms. Milton conducts multiple research projects for peer-reviewed medical journals and is a clinician with the Running Lab and helps run their strength and conditioning classes for runners and golfers. N’Namdi Nelson, CSCS, Exercise Physiologist Mr. Nelson is a certified strength and conditioning specialist (CSCS®) and exercise physiologist and is a corrective exercise and performance enhancement specialist. His specialty is developing challenging and comprehensive fitness programs to help athletes of all levels reach their maximum potential. He also creates corrective exercise programs that help his clients prevent injury. Mr. Nelson’s experience as a former semi-pro football player gives him a unique perspective on health and wellness. In addition to creating individualized fitness programs, Mr. Nelson conducts metabolic and biomechanical evaluations at the Samantha Heller, MS, RDN, Clinical Nutritionist Ms. Heller is a registered dietitian and exercise physiologist. She has expertise in chronic diseases such as diabetes, cancer, and heart disease. Her clinical interests also include weight management and sports. She is the host of “Samantha Heller’s Health and Nutrition Show” on SiriusXM Radio’s Doctor Radio station and author of The Only Cleanse: A 14-Day Natural Detox Plan to Jump-Start a Lifetime of Health . Ms. Heller is a clinician with the Running Lab. Nicole Lund, MPH, RDN, Clinical Nutritionist Ms. Lund is a registered dietitian, adjunct professor, and certified personal trainer. She has expertise in sports and performance nutrition as well as in training clients with various clinical and musculoskeletal conditions. Ms. Lund is a clinician with the Running Lab and USA Nordic. Hunter Carter, MA, CPT, CES, Exercise Physiologist Mr. Carter holds a master’s degree in exercise physiology and is a certified personal trainer, corrective exercise specialist, USA Track and Field Level 1 coach, and Functional Movement Systems practitioner. He teaches the Strength and Conditioning for Runners Total Body Wellness for Active Older Adults classes, conducts metabolic testing, and designs custom training programs for a diverse population. As a lifelong mover and former professional dancer, Mr. Carter aims to get clients fit for performance in any field they endeavor. Bonnie Marks, PsyD, Staff Psychologist Dr. Marks specializes in mindfulness and recovery from injury, sports psychology, and meditation. She performs neuropsychological evaluations, cognitive remediation, and psychotherapy, and she leads presentations on integrative medicine. She serves as a guide for athletes with disabilities during the New York City Marathon and volunteers with the USA Women’s Wrestling Team as a consultant on performance issues. Belkys DeJesus, Administrative Assistant Ms. DeJesus coordinates all medical and sports nutrition visits. She also helps organize, set up, and schedule strength and conditioning and wellness classes. She received the NYU Langone Team Spotlight Award in 2005. Jolan Browne, PT, DPT , OCS, Senior Physical Therapist Wil Colón, PT, DPT , MS, SCS, Clinical Specialist Jennifer Gallinaro, DPT, PT, OCS, Program Manager Dr. Gallinaro is certified by the American Board of Physical Therapy Specialties as a clinical specialist in orthopedics. Her areas of specialty and clinical interests include postoperative shoulder rehabilitation and golf- and running-related injuries. A founding member of the Running Lab, Dr. Gallinaro conducts video analysis. She also is a founding member of the Golf Lab. Mira T. Kaufman, PT, DPT, OCS, Senior Physical Therapist James Koo, DPT, OCS, SCS, FAAOMPT, COMT, Supervisor Dr. Koo is an outpatient physical therapy supervisor. He is certified as a clinical specialist in both orthopedic and sports physical therapy by the American Board of Physical Therapy Specialties. He is a certified orthopedic manual therapist and a fellow of the American Academy of Orthopedic Manual Therapists. Dr. Koo maintains an active clinical practice, specializing in orthopedic and sports manual physical therapy and subspecializing in treating runners and triathletes. A founding member of the Running Lab, he performs video analysis and moderates educational sessions. He also is a founding member of the Golf Lab. Dr. Koo has a black belt in tae kwon do and is a volleyball setter, a marathon runner, and an Ironman triathlon finisher. Fiona Moore, DPT, PT, OCS, SCS, Supervisor Dr. Moore is an outpatient physical therapy supervisor. She is a board-certified clinical specialist in orthopedics and sports through the American Board of Physical Therapy Specialties. Her areas of specialty and clinical interest include orthopedic manual therapy, treatment of overuse and sports-related injuries, and movement analysis. At the Running Lab, Dr. Moore conducts foot and ankle assessments and develops runners’ final reports. A former internationally ranked swimmer and collegiate water polo player, Dr. Moore now enjoys sprint triathlons, running, and swimming. Bethany R. Ridenhour PT, DPT , OCS, CSCS, Senior Physical Therapist Monica Seu, OTR/L, CHT, CLT, Senior Occupational Therapist Ms. Seu is a senior II occupational therapist. She is a certified hand therapist and has obtained her Level 1 Certification through Titleist Performance Institute. Her areas of specialty and clinical interests include postsurgical and nonsurgical management of the shoulder, elbow, and hand, as well as treating golf-related injuries to the upper body. In the Golf Lab, she assesses clients’ strength and flexibility. Eric Ross, PT, DPT , OCS, Clinical Specialist Charles Homoky, PT, DPT , SCS, CSCS, Staff Physical Therapist Kayce L. Davis, PT, DPT , Senior Physical Therapist Raymond Peralta, PT, DPT , RCEP, Senior Physical Therapist Scott Young, Golf Pro Mr. Young is a AAA-rated Professional Golfers Association of Australia member, and has been a member of the organization for 18 years. As a touring golf professional, he has traveled the globe for 10 years playing in more than 80 full tour events. Mr. Young combines personal experience in pure ball striking with knowledge of human physiology and golf specific biomechanics. Will Vandenberg, MS, Biomechanist Mr. Vandenberg is a sports biomechanist. He is also a biomechanical quantitative analyst for the Los Angeles Dodgers. He received his master of science degree in mechanical engineering and biomechanics from Tufts University and is OnBase University–certified in baseball hitting. A pitcher for his college baseball team, he specializes in injury prevention and improving athletic performance. Mr. Vandenberg helped develop programs at the Golf Lab. Anthony Yacco, Pitching Coach In 1999, Coach Yacco was the San Francisco Giants tenth-round draft pick out of high school. As a former professional athlete, he has unique insights that help baseball players improve their sports performance. Coach Yacco specializes in biomechanics and performance for rotational athletes from youth to professional levels. His expertise extends across multiple sports, including football, baseball, softball, lacrosse, hockey, and golf. He has been creating individualized programs for athletes for more than 20 years, and focuses on the interrelationship between biomechanics and kinesiology along with mental and emotional awareness, strength, and conditioning. For patients with symptoms of heart failure that limit their quality of life, doctors at NYU Langone’s offer a complete evaluation for all advanced cardiac therapies, including left ventricular assist devices, total artificial heart, , and surgical and percutaneous alternatives for complex valvular heart disease. The following clinical signs and symptoms should prompt physicians to refer patients in a timely manner for evaluation: inability to walk one block or up a flight of stairs without stopping intolerance of previously tolerated doses of beta blockers or ACE inhibitors any heart failure hospitalization within the last six months multiple implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) shocks in a symptomatic patient high doses of furosemide (>1 mg/kg) to maintain euvolemia nonresponse to cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) For additional information or to refer a patient, please call 855-NYU-LVAD ( Diagnosis & Treatment of Heart Valve Disease , you receive personalized care based on your individual needs. Our team includes doctors who specialize in different types of valve repair and replacement techniques, which means you receive the treatment that is best suited to your individual medical condition. To learn more about the care experience at the Heart Valve Center, read our Your First Appointment Most of the time, we can ensure that all necessary tests are completed by the day of your initial visit. Our heart valve doctors review your records, and at your appointment, we discuss your treatment options. During your visit, you may also meet with other specialists based on your individual needs such as geriatric cardiologists, physical therapists, nutritionists, or research specialists. We understand that deciding among the variety of treatment options for heart valve disease may feel overwhelming for patients and their families. We provide you and your family with the information you need to make an informed decision. Diagnostic Testing for Heart Valve Disease We offer multiple tests at the Heart Valve Center to diagnose aortic valve disease diagnose mitral valve disease . They include the following: echocardiogram, in which ultrasound is used to show how your heart and its valves are working cardiac catheterization, in which a long, thin, narrow tube is used to look for blockages in the arteries cardiac CT scan, in which X-ray imaging is used to view your heart and blood vessels electrocardiogram, known as an EKG, which analyzes your heart’s electrical activity Echocardiograms are performed at NYU Langone’s noninvasive cardiac imaging and testing team , which is led by Dr. Muhamed Saric , a world-renowned expert in this field. Treatments for Aortic Valve Disease includes aortic valve stenosis and aortic valve regurgitation . We offer many treatment options for aortic valve disease, including the following: watchful waiting , recommended for people with mild forms of the condition with few or no symptoms transcatheter procedures such as transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) and aortic balloon valvuloplasty, which are provided by doctors at our minimally invasive aortic valve replacement surgery open heart surgery for aortic valve replacement or aortic root replacement Treatments for Mitral Valve Disease mitral valve regurgitation and mitral valve stenosis . We offer many treatment options for mitral valve disease, including the following: such as transcatheter mitral valve repair with MitraClip®, transcatheter mitral valve replacement, and mitral balloon valvuloplasty, which are provided by doctors at our Transcatheter Heart Valve Program , which is performed through five small pencil-sized incisions in the chest wall between the ribs and is provided by doctors at our that involves a small incision on the right side of the chest, which is also provided by doctors at our Mitral Valve Repair Program Recovery from Heart Valve Disease Treatment Recovery time following a heart valve disease procedure depends on the type of treatment used and your overall health. Transcatheter techniques generally require a one-night hospital stay, while open heart procedures can require a two- to four-day hospital stay. Nonsurgical Treatment for Sports Medicine Injuries Whenever possible, our specialists use nonsurgical treatments for injuries and conditions such as , golfer’s elbow, , and shoulder dislocations. Dr. Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas and other sports medicine specialists offer surgical and nonsurgical treatments for injuries and conditions that affect the shoulder and arm. Our advanced nonsurgical techniques are performed on an outpatient basis and include injections using platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy, stem cell therapy, and shock wave therapy. Platelet-Rich Plasma Therapy In PRP therapy, your own blood components are used to stimulate healing in acute or chronically injured tendons, muscles, and ligaments. During the procedure, which takes between 20 and 30 minutes, our experts take a small amount of blood from your arm and place it in a special processing unit that separates the platelets and growth factors from the other blood components. The platelets and growth factors are then collected in a sterile syringe and injected into the targeted tissue. Stem Cell Therapy Adult mesenchymal stem cells, found in bone marrow, are primitive cells that help our bodies naturally heal. These cells have unique capabilities: They can differentiate into multiple tissues, including bone, cartilage, and muscle, as well as reduce inflammation. During a stem cell therapy procedure, which takes under 45 minutes, adult mesenchymal stem cells, derived from your own bone marrow, are removed from a bone in your pelvis, concentrated into a serum, and then injected into the injured knee, hip, or shoulder. It’s usually an outpatient procedure, often performed without the need for sedation. Shock wave therapy is used to stimulate healing in acute or chronically injured tendons and muscles. Our experts use Extracorporeal Pulse Technology , or EPAT —a unique set of pressure waves targeted at an area with chronic pain—to simulate cell production, enhance blood circulation, and eventually regenerate damaged tissue. The procedure usually takes 10 to 15 minutes, depending on the type of injury. Generally, five sessions are necessary for you to experience pain relief. Rehabilitation for Sports Injuries We focus on the rehabilitation of injuries and conditions to prevent them from recurring. Our sports medicine doctors collaborate with experts from the Sports Injury Rehabilitation Program to develop a customized physical therapy plan for you that may include the following: core strengthening and stabilizing exercises joint and soft tissue mobilization manual therapy, including soft tissue work muscle energy techniques that use your muscle contractions to reposition misaligned joints Pilates techniques such as mat, chair, and reformer posture, body mechanics, and ergonomic instruction therapeutic exercises targeted at weak or tight areas To make an appointment at NYU Langone’s Sports Medicine Center, please call Sports Medicine Injuries We Treat are dedicated to treating orthopedic injuries of all types, with a special focus on the knee and shoulder. Knee Injuries We Treat Your knee supports up to seven times your body’s weight, so it’s highly vulnerable to injury—whether it’s from a direct hit while playing contact sports, the stress of repeatedly going up and down the stairs, or the effects of osteoarthritis. Dr. Ramesh Gidumal and other orthopedic surgeons treat people with various musculoskeletal injuries and conditions, including those that affect the knee. We provide treatment for injuries and conditions that affect the knee, including the following: bursitis and tendinitis in the knee anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury iliotibial band (ITB) syndrome patellar tendinitis , also called jumper’s knee knee sprain meniscal tear patellofemoral pain syndrome , or runner’s knee posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) injury medial collateral ligament (MCL) injury cartilage injuries knee dislocations knee cap dislocations revision knee surgeries complex knee injuries quadriceps and patella tendon tears Shoulder, Elbow, and Arm Injuries We Treat Injuries to ligaments, muscles, and tendons that make up the shoulder can limit your ability to move and lift your arms, and can also cause chronic pain. We offer treatment for injuries and conditions that specifically affect the shoulder and arm, including the following: biceps and triceps tendon tears lateral epicondylitis , or tennis elbow medial epicondylitis , or golfer’s elbow rotator cuff tendinitis ulnar collateral ligament tears, or Tommy John injury lateral ligament tears of elbow shoulder instability labral tears complex shoulder and elbow injuries Other Injuries We Treat Often, activities that require the same motion over and over, such as long-distance running, can lead to injury. These types of conditions can affect various parts of the body, including the calf, elbow, groin, hamstring, or quadriceps. “I was barely able to walk because of compartment syndrome and a torn Achilles tendon. After surgery, I am back in the gym exercising again.” —James, Age 52; After a meniscus repair, James is walking limp-free and exercising on a stationary bike. Some of the repetitive-use conditions we treat include the following: Achilles tendinitis and Achilles tendon rupture bursitis of the shoulder, elbow, knee, and hip compartment syndrome , which can cause pain, swelling, numbness and tingling in the arms, hands, legs, feet, or buttocks hamstring tears muscle strain or pulled muscle osteoarthritis of the sprains in the ankle tendinopathy in the heel, knee, shoulder, ankle, or elbow We also provide treatment for injuries and conditions that specifically affect the hips, shins, and feet and ankles, including , shin splints, and plantar fasciitis. surgeons are some of the most experienced in the country, performing more than 4,000 surgeries each year. We perform most surgeries on an outpatient basis , so you can start recovering comfortably in your own home on the day of the procedure. Our team of surgeons offers a variety of treatments, including cartilage repair and restoration, and specializes in arthroscopic procedures. We offer surgical treatments such as cartilage repair and restoration, including the following: autologous chondrocyte implantation biologic restoration DeNovo natural tissue implantation matrix-induced autologous chondrocyte implantation (MACI) meniscus transplantation microfracture surgery osteochondral allograft and autograft transplantation stem cell treatment “Both my surgeon and physical therapist promised me I would dance again no matter what. And they were right.” —Manuela, Age 21; Dr. Michael Alaia performed a hamstring graft on Manuela, a professional dancer who thought her dancing career was over. A year after surgery, she is dancing at least 18 hours a week. Our surgeons also specialize in arthroscopic procedures, in which a small camera is inserted into a hip, shoulder, or knee joint to diagnose injury, remove bone or cartilage, or repair tendons and ligaments. These minimally invasive procedures include the following: knee arthroscopy for anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction meniscus repair shoulder arthroscopy for labral repair , or biceps tenodesis ankle cartilage restoration and ligament reconstruction elbow arthroscopy for thrower’s elbow hip arthroscopy for labral tear repair We also offer additional procedures to repair injuries to the knee, shoulder, elbow, hand, and other areas, including the following: arthrocentesis, in which fluid build-up in the knee or shoulder is removed capsular release of the shoulder cruciate ligament surgery and reconstruction of the ACL, posterior cruciate ligament (PCL), lateral collateral ligament (LCL), and medial collateral ligament (MCL)—all types of knee tears elbow ulnar collateral ligament reconstruction, also known as Tommy John surgery knee osteotomy to ease arthritis pain meniscectomy, which is the removal of painful, damaged cartilage in the knee joint meniscus repair, including meniscus allograft transplantation patellar instability surgery to put a dislocated kneecap back into place pectoralis major repair for shoulder injuries most commonly seen in professional weight lifters proximal hamstring repair superior labral tear from anterior to posterior (SLAP) and labral repair of the shoulder tendolysis to repair damaged hand or wrist tendons Members of our specialized team at NYU Langone’s aim to advance the quality of dance science and improve the delivery of dance medicine. We do this by conducting ongoing research , establishing standards of excellence for dance medicine practitioners, and serving on the boards and committees of national and international dance medicine associations and journals. The members of our team have worked with some of the top dance companies and Broadway productions Donald J. Rose, MD Director | Sports Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery Dr. Rose is an orthopedic surgeon and founding director of NYU Langone’s Harkness Center for Dance Injuries, as well as a clinical associate professor at NYU Langone. He is the orthopedic consultant to the Joyce Theatre and Conservatory of Dance at Purchase College, State University of New York (SUNY); numerous dance companies including Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Dance Theatre of Harlem, Cirque du Soleil, Martha Graham Dance Company, and STREB Extreme Action; and many Broadway and off-Broadway shows. Dr. Rose received the prestigious Dance Library of Israel Documents of Dance Award in 1997, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey (UMDNJ) Distinguished Alumnus Award in 2002, and the UMDNJ Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Distinguished Alumnus Award in 2012. He has written numerous chapters and papers on sports medicine, dance injuries, and arthroscopic surgery, and has been listed as a “Top Doctor” by New York Magazine and Castle Connolly. Alison Deleget, MS, ATC Assistant Director Ms. Deleget completed her bachelor’s degree in ballet and her master’s degree in athletic training at Indiana University. She also holds a graduate certificate in core business competencies from NYU. With 20 years’ experience in performing arts medicine, Ms. Deleget has worked with various elite dance companies and Broadway shows in New York, including Dance Theatre of Harlem, Martha Graham, Complexions Contemporary Ballet, Ballet Hispánico, Hamilton, Wicked, Les Miserables, and the Public Theater. She has lectured extensively within the dance community and at national and international conferences. Lauren E. Borowski, MD Associate Director | Sports Medicine Dr. Borowski is a board-certified family medicine physician with an added qualification in sports medicine. A dance major at NYU’s Tisch School of the Arts led Dr. Borowski to pursue a career in sports medicine with a particular interest in dance and performing arts medicine. She is excited to be in New York City to work with the amazing members of its dance community. Faye E. Dilgen, PT, DPT Program Manager Dr. Dilgen holds a doctorate in physical therapy from Long Island University and has completed coursework for a doctorate in pathokinesiology from NYU. She has been treating dancers at Harkness Center for Dance Injuries for more than 25 years and was a founding physical therapist for the program. She specializes in orthopedic manual therapy, rehabilitation, and functional training for performing artists and is certified in mat Pilates. Dr. Dilgen has treated dancers from numerous companies, Broadway shows, and schools. Staff Physicians Tracy Espiritu McKay, D.O. Dr. McKay is a board-certified physical medicine and rehabilitation physician with an additional qualification in sports medicine. Her love of musical theater provided her with the opportunity to perform on many famous stages, including at Lincoln Center and Carnegie Hall. By providing care to artists and performers, Dr. McKay hopes to assist them in their pursuit of the arts and to remain connected to a field she is passionate about. She is overjoyed at the opportunity to work and collaborate with the Harkness team. David S. Weiss, MD Consulting Physician | Sports Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery Dr. Weiss is an orthopedist specializing in sports medicine and performing arts medicine. He served as an associate director at Harkness Center for Dance Injuries and is now an attending physician and clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery at NYU Langone. Dr. Weiss serves as an orthopedist for Mark Morris Dance Group, Paul Taylor Dance Company, Parsons Dance Company, Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo, Ballet Hispánico, The Juilliard School, and many Broadway shows, including Hamilton The Book of Mormon Chicago Wicked Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Beetlejuice Hadestown . In all, he has served as an orthopedist for more than 90 Broadway and off-Broadway theatrical productions over the past several decades. In July 2020, he became president of the board of directors of the Dance Research Foundation. Dr. Weiss received his bachelor’s degree summa cum laude from Brandeis University, where he was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa, and his medical degree from Yale School of Medicine. He completed his orthopedic and sports medicine training at Yale New Haven Medical Center, NYU Langone, NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue, and University of Chicago Medicine. Acupuncturist AY Ayla Yavin, MS, LAc A former professional dancer, Ms. Yavin has more than 14 years’ experience as an acupuncturist, with special areas of focus including injury rehabilitation and prevention, psychological resilience, healthy lifestyle, and professional longevity. She earned her bachelor of arts in religion at Swarthmore College and her master of science in oriental medicine at Touro College. Ms. Yavin enjoys collaborating within integrative medical environments. Athletic Trainers Joshua Honrado, DAT, MS, ATC, CSCS, RYT Athletic Trainer Dr. Honrado provides backstage care to Broadway shows and elite dance companies, as well as injury prevention assessments and educational lectures to the dance community. He received his doctor of athletic training degree from A.T. Still University and is a certified strength and conditioning specialist and a registered yoga teacher. Molly McEvoy, MS, ATC Ms. McEvoy holds a bachelor’s degree in exercise science and a master’s degree in athletic training from Shenandoah University, where she also earned a graduate certificate in performing arts medicine. Prior to joining the Harkness Center team, she was assistant athletic trainer at Keiser University. Her graduate studies included work with the dancers of the Houston Ballet. Lauren McIntyre, ATC Clinical Specialist, Emergency Management Liaison Ms. McIntyre provides backstage care to Broadway shows and dance companies as well as injury prevention assessments and educational lectures to the dance community. She is an on-site certified athletic trainer for The Conservatory of Dance at Purchase College, SUNY. CO CalvinOrallo, MS, ATC Mr. Orallo has been working with performing artists ranging from students to professionals since graduating with a master’s degree in athletic training from Seton Hall University. He has assisted performing artists from dance companies, major theme parks, and freestyle and breaking competitions. He is also an athletic trainer for the American Musical and Dramatic Academy and the Brooklyn Nets entertainment department. EO Ella Otto, MS, ATC, CPT Ms. Otto received a bachelor’s degree in movement science and a master’s degree in athletic training from Winona State University, where she also earned a minor in dance. An athletic training student intern with The Harkness Center for Dance Injuries in 2022, she has experience as a choreographer, dancer, and strength and conditioning coach for sports teams. She holds certifications in Graston Technique and personal training and as a corrective exercise specialist. MR Megan Richardson, MS, Dipl, Ac, LAc, ATC Per Diem Clinical Specialist Ms. Richardson is a certified athletic trainer and acupuncturist specializing in manual therapy, Pilates-based rehabilitation, and functional training for performing artists. She has provided backstage care to numerous dance companies and Broadway shows. She sits on the board of directors of the International Association for Dance Medicine and Science. BridgetteSaba Whitermore, DAT, PAM-Mc, LAT, ATC Dr. Whitermore holds a bachelor’s degree in athletic training with double minors in theater and dance from West Chester University of Pennsylvania, a performing arts medicine master’s certificate from Shenandoah University, and a doctorate in athletic training from Moravian University. She is also a certified Graston Technique specialist. Prior to joining the Harkness Center for Dance Injury team, Dr. Whitermore worked at Moravian University as a graduate teaching assistant for the master of athletic training program and practiced as an athletic trainer working with dancers, musicians, and cheer athletes. Patricia R. Cavaleri, PT, DPT Physical Therapist | Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapy Dr. Cavaleri received her bachelor of science from the University of Wisconsin—Parkside and her doctor of physical therapy from Columbia University. She successfully completed the Performing Arts Physical Therapy Fellowship at the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries. She has a background in competition dance and is an instructor in full apparatus for classical Pilates. She has experience in treating people of all ages and has provided backstage physical therapy care for multiple Broadway shows. Sarah E. Edery-Altas, PT, DPT Clinical Specialist | Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapy Dr. Edery-Altas received a bachelor’s degree in neuroscience and a doctorate in physical therapy from Columbia University. She is currently in a PhD program at Seton Hall University’s Department of Interprofessional Health Sciences and Health Administration and is also in the University of Alberta’s Graduate Certificate in Pain Management program. Previously, she was the American Physical Therapy Association’s (APTA) performing arts special interest group research chair, and currently she is an APTA independent study course task force co-chair. Dr. Edery-Altas is a former professional ballet dancer, who danced as a member of both the Pennsylvania Ballet and the Boston Ballet. Heather Heineman, PT, DPT Physical Therapy Assistant Supervisor | Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapy Dr. Heineman received her doctoral degree in physical therapy from Columbia University’s College of Physicians and Surgeons. Her experience in dance, aerial arts, yoga, and Pilates inform her manual therapy and Pilates-based rehabilitation. Joan Heeringa, PT, DPT Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapy Dr. Heeringa holds a doctorate in physical therapy from Columbia University. Prior to her physical therapy education, she danced competitively in the Minneapolis area and earned a bachelor of arts in dance from Point Park University’s Conservatory of Performing Arts. She has performed professionally aboard Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines, at various regional theaters, and in film and television. Dr. Heeringa has taken course work in advanced orthopedics, was a member of the Columbia University Dance Research team, and completed her final clinical student affiliation at the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries. Mark Hall, MSPT Physical Therapy Supervisor, Fellowship Program Coordinator | Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapy Mr. Hunter-Hall specializes in manual therapy and Pilates-based rehabilitation and is a clinical educator. Mr. Hunter-Hall spent 12 years performing in musicals, including the Broadway production of Cats and the national tour of Oklahoma ! Rebecca Kesting, PT, DPT Dr. Kesting received a bachelor’s degree in dance and kinesiology from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and a doctorate in physical therapy from Columbia University. She completed her orthopedic physical therapy residency at NYU Steinhardt with clinical hours at Harkness Center for Dance Injuries. Marla Mcreynolds-Waldron, PT, DPT Dr. Mcreynolds-Waldron holds a doctorate in physical therapy from Columbia University. After receiving her undergraduate degree from California State University, Long Beach, in dance and exercise science, she achieved a successful dance career on Broadway, with Cirque du Soleil, on international tours, and in film and television. Marla is now pursuing orthopedic physical therapy with an emphasis on performing arts. In spring 2022, she completed the physical therapy student clinical affiliation at Harkness Center for Dance Injuries. Sarah Plumer-holzman, PT, DPT Dr. Plumer-Holzman holds a bachelor of fine arts from the North Carolina School of the Arts and a doctorate in physical therapy from the University of Washington. A board-certified orthopedic clinical specialist, she is also a certified functional manual therapist through the Institute of Physical Arts. Previously, Dr. Plumer-Holzman danced professionally in New York City for nine years, performing in both modern and contemporary ballet companies. She has studied with choreographer and anatomist Irene Dowd since 2000, assisting her for five years. Dr. Plumer-Holzman has been a dedicated yoga practitioner and teacher in the Ashtanga yoga tradition for more than 25 years and has taught anatomy and kinesiology for yoga teachers since 2006. Giovanna M. Salerno, PT, DPT Dr. Salerno earned her bachelor’s degree in exercise science with a minor in dance from West Chester University of Pennsylvania and her doctorate of physical therapy from Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences. She is a registered yoga teacher through Yoga Alliance and has completed postgraduate continuing education in orthopedic manual therapies including North American Institute of Orthopedic Manual Therapy, Graston Technique, and NeuroKinetic Therapy, as well as LSVT BIG training for Parkinson’s disease movement disorders. Her clinical interests include injury prevention and rehabilitation for dancers of all styles, musicians, performing artists, and runners of all ages. She is a lifelong dancer and has performed and presented choreographic works internationally as well as taught dance. Emily R. Sandow, PT, DPT Dr. Sandow holds a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and economics from NYU, and graduated with honors from Columbia University with a master’s and doctorate degree in physical therapy. Dr. Sandow is a frequent consultant on dancer health, is an instructor in NYU Steinhardt’s Department of Physical Therapy, and provides services to major dance companies and Broadway shows. Dr. Sandow trained in dance at the LaGuardia High School of Performing Arts and the School of American Ballet. Melvin Varghese, PT, DPT Dr. Varghese specializes in manual therapy and therapeutic exercise. He brings experience working in orthopedic settings as well as backstage on musicals. He received his doctor of physical therapy as well as his bachelor of science in health sciences from Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, New York. Dr. Varghese is also a trained Indian classical dancer. Administrative Staff Ahmad Amireh, Research Associate Mr. Ahireh is a recent graduate with bachelor’s degrees in biology and evolutionary anthropology from Duke University. He is pursuing a master’s degree in movement science and education at Columbia University, with research interests in biomechanics and neuromodulation. Before joining the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries, he studied postural stability restoration following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction surgery at the Michael W. Krzyzewski Human Performance Laboratory (K-Lab). He is a personal trainer and enjoys powerlifting and cycling. Ciara Byrne, Meg Bronson-Davidson, Nakida Dunn, and Stephanie Rivas, Medical Office Associates The medical office associates welcome patients to the Harkness Center, schedule appointments, and answer any questions you have about treatment. Jessica Mattsson, Program Coordinator Ms. Mattsson provides administrative support throughout the department. She holds dual bachelor’s degrees in sport management and communications from Rutgers University. She is also a CrossFit Level 1 Trainer and head trainer of Crossfit Kids at Crossfit 103 on Staten Island. Kristen Stevens, MA, Program Coordinator Ms. Stevens coordinates education programs and marketing. Previously, she worked as a professional ballet dancer in companies, including Norwegian National Ballet and BalletMet Columbus, and she is now on faculty at the American Ballet Theatre’s JKO School Children’s Division. She holds a master’s degree in arts administration from Teachers College, Columbia University. Our specialized team at NYU Langone’s has cared for many prominent performing artists in organizations and troupes around the world. We treat performers at their theater or studio and provide early interventions for orthopedic injuries. The performers we care for are also offered priority referrals into NYU Langone’s extensive medical network for further evaluation and care when necessary. Organizations and productions we’ve provided services to include the following. Stage Productions The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee The Addams Family The Apple Tree Avenue Q Jelly’s Last Jam The Capeman Chitty Chitty Bang Bang Cirque du Soleil Elf Evita Follies Footloose Girl From the North Country Grease Guys and Dolls How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying In the Heights The King and I La Cage aux Folles Les Misérables Little Shop of Horrors Man of La Mancha Matthew Bourne’s Swan Lake Miss Saigon Motown: The Musical The Music Man Newsies Once Promises, Promises Ragtime The Red Shoes Riverdance on Broadway Ruined Shrek The Musical The Who’s Tommy War Horse Dance and Theater Companies and Schools Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre American Academy of Ballet American Dance Festival Ballet Hispánico Ballet Tech Buglisi Dance Theatre Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet Complexions Contemporary Ballet The Conservatory of Dance at Purchase College, the State University of New York Dance Theatre of Harlem De La Guarda Donald Byrd/The Group Dorrance Dance Fuerza Bruta Hope Boykin Dance Hunter College The Joffrey Ballet The Juilliard School Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo Limón Dance Company Lucinda Childs Dance Mark Morris Dance Group Martha Graham Dance Company Merce Cunningham Dance Company The New Group The Parsons Dance Company Paul Taylor Dance Company Stephen Petronio Company Pilobolus Dance Theater The Public Theater Soho Rep STREB Extreme Action Company TheatreWorks Twyla Tharp Dance If you are interested in on-site care for your school, company, or production, please email Dance Injury Prevention Programs , we use our experience managing dance-related injuries to educate dancers about how to avoid injury and stay healthy. We accomplish this through programs and services that focus on assessing your risk of injury and diagnosing injuries at their earliest and most treatable stages. The success of our injury prevention programs has been proven on the most famed stages in the world. Not only have our experts protected and lengthened the careers of talented performing artists, we have given these dancers—and the professionals who train and care for them—the confidence and ability to accomplish their greatest professional goals. Appointments are required for all injury prevention services and programs listed below. To make an appointment, please call Injury Prevention Assessment The injury prevention assessment program offers a free evaluation that aims to prevent dance injuries before they occur. You meet with an athletic trainer or physical therapist who observes your dance technique, evaluates your strength and flexibility, and reviews your medical and nutritional history. At the end of the assessment, your licensed clinician provides you with an individually tailored exercise regimen that includes recommendations for technique modification, training strategies, and footwear that can reduce the risk of injury. We offer in-person visits and at different times during the week. Injury prevention assessments are available annually (minimum age 10 years). Injury Prevention Lectures and Workshops Injury prevention lectures and workshops address all aspects of injury prevention, including cross-training, warm-up techniques, nutrition and hydration, pointe readiness, and environmental safety. These offerings can be tailored for varied audiences, including dancers, producers, teachers, parents, company managers, and healthcare professionals. To schedule or inquire about a workshop for your organization, please complete our information request form and email it to Harkness Center Healthy Dancer Initiative The Harkness Center Healthy Dancer Initiative, launched in early 2018, provides subsidized movement sessions and free wellness workshops to professional dancers who have financial need. The program aims to encourage a sound, holistic approach to self-care and aid in career longevity. To achieve these goals, Harkness Center is partnering with the Mark Morris Dance Group, Gibney, and for the first time in 2025, Broadway Dance Center. The next six-month term takes place from January 2 to June 30, 2025. The application period is open from October 15 to November 15, 2024. Please visit the Gibney Broadway Dance Center websites for more information. Raked Stage Seminars Raked stage seminars provide performers with information on how to work safely on nontraditional dance surfaces. These may include a raked, or angled, stage, as well as hard, soft, hot, cold, or wet surfaces. Information about working safely in other performance settings—such as on a ceiling, in a pool, or in the air while using a harness—is also provided. Pointe Readiness Program Ballet dancers are typically considered ready to use the pointe technique, which requires toe shoes, at 12 years of age. However, musculoskeletal maturity and motor skill development vary greatly. The Harkness Center for Dance Injuries’ pointe readiness program consists of a series of dynamic tests. These can provide an accurate estimation to parents and dance company leaders of a youth’s readiness to safely begin pointe work. Annual Health Screenings We provide annual health screenings to dance companies and theater and entertainment organizations. Each performer receives a full, activity-specific functional movement evaluation, individualized report, and instructions on how to address his or her particular health risks. The consulting organization receives a summary report that identifies the dancers’ overall risk of injury. We also provide suggestions on ways to keep dancers healthy that can reduce the organization’s costs in the long term. Ergonomic Evaluations Ergonomic evaluations identify risk factors associated with the physical and psychosocial aspects of the dance environment. Equipment modifications and training recommendations are provided. , you are treated by experts in care and rehabilitation. Members of your care team may include , who can help you regain your independence after a concussion; , who can address cognitive changes due to concussion; , who treat musculoskeletal injuries related to concussion; , who address any concerns related to the emotional and physical impact of a concussion; speech–language pathologists , who offer therapies to maximize written, verbal language, memory, and attention skills; vestibular therapists , who can help improve dizziness and balance issues related to concussion; and pediatric specialists , who are dedicated to treating children and young adults with concussion. Dina Pagnotta, PT, MPT, MPH Director of Strategic Initiatives Ms. Pagnotta is responsible for daily operations at the Concussion Center, including policy development and implementation, educational endeavors, marketing, research, and center expansion. As director of strategic initiatives, Ms. Pagnotta supports the development of new projects and programming within NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation and the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. She received a master of physical therapy degree from Hahnemann University (which has since merged into Drexel University) and a master of public health degree from Columbia University. Mara F. Sproul, MPA, RN-BC, CRRN Ms. Sproul is a registered nurse with extensive experience in pediatric, geriatric, and cardiac rehabilitation and nursing administration. She has a master’s degree in public administration from NYU and is certified in rehabilitation nursing and geriatric nursing. In her role, she is responsible for day-to-day interactions with patients and facilitates various aspects of their clinical care, as well as helps with the overall development of the Concussion Center. Victoria Juanito, RN, BSN Clinical Coordinator Ms. Juanito is a registered nurse who has experience in clinical and managerial roles, including as a training officer in a military hospital. She has worked as a school nurse, in a facility for adults with cerebral palsy and other disabilities, and, most recently, in several neurology clinics in an academic hospital. She is responsible for day-to-day patient interactions and assists in various aspects of their clinical care. Matt Manu, MPA, ATC Senior Program Coordinator Mr. Manu is a certified athletic trainer with experience in the secondary school and professional setting. As the Concussion Center, he works to advance clinical programming, support ongoing research, and expand professional and community education including local academic institutions, youth leagues, and professional athletic leagues. He serves as the liaison to our school and community partners and as well as our athletic training program. Occupational Therapy Kellianne Arnella, MS, OTR/L, CSRS, CDRS Neurological Clinical Specialist-Occupational Therapy Ms. Arnella specializes in treating patients who have vision issues following traumatic brain injuries (TBI) and concussion. She works to determine and individualized treatment plan for each patient. Through skill remediation and individual strategy use, she helps patients successfully return to their pre-injury habits, routines, and roles. Holly Cohen, OTR/L, SCEM, ATP, CDRS Occupational Therapist Ms. Cohen specializes in the use assistive technology to improve an individual’s access of a computer or smart device, increase their functional independence, and safety in all environments. Elizabeth J. Martori, OTR/L Vision Clinical Specialist | Occupational Therapy Based on Long Island, Ms. Martori specializes in vision rehabilitation for people who have concussion and traumatic brain injury. She helps improve visual perceptual and motor skills, including reading, writing, computer use, and other work- and school-related activities. Margaret A. Waskiewicz, OTR/L, OTD Unit Supervisor | Occupational Therapy, Neurologic Occupational Therapy Ms. Waskiewicz specializes in vision rehabilitation, helping people who have concussion and traumatic brain injury resume their usual routines, including self-care, home management, and work and school activities. Neuropsychology and Psychology Amanda Childs, PhD Senior Psychologist Dr. Childs specializes in rehabilitation and health psychology with a focus on the treatment of concussion, traumatic brain injury, and oncology. She provides neuropsychological assessments, cognitive rehabilitation, and individual and group psychotherapy. She completed a postdoctoral fellowship in Advanced Rehabilitation Research Training (AART) at Rusk Rehabilitation. Ilana S. Grunwald, PhD Rehabilitation Psychology Dr. Grunwald provides neuropsychological and psychological evaluations and treatment for individuals who have a wide variety of medical issues including concussion, TBI, and stroke. She works to help people improve their adjustment, acceptance, and coping with complicated issues to live better lives. She specializes in working with individuals who have vocal disorders. Kenneth D. Hartline, PsyD Psychology Dr. Hartline is a board-certified clinical neuropsychologist and supervisor of psychology at Rusk Rehabilitation at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital. He specializes in the assessment of traumatic brain injury, concussion, and other neurological conditions in children, adolescents and young adults. Dr. Hartline received his Doctor of Psychology degree in clinical psychology from Pepperdine University in Malibu, CA. He completed an APA-accredited internship at Rusk Rehabilitation and a two-year postdoctoral fellowship in pediatric clinical neuropsychology at Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, where he trained in pediatric and young adult concussion, traumatic brain injury and epilepsy. Prior to returning to NYU Langone, he was a clinical neuropsychologist at Children’s Hospital Los Angeles and an Assistant Professor of Neurology at the University of Southern California’s Keck School of Medicine. DL Donna M. Langenbahn, PhD Coordinator, Outpatient Psychology Services | Rehabilitation Psychology Dr. Langenbahn provides neuropsychological assessment and treatment to people dealing with cognitive, emotional, and behavioral issues related to brain injury and concussion. She has received the John G. Gianutsos Award for Special Educational Contributions from Rusk Rehabilitation and was named a distinguished member of the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine, which awarded her the Elizabeth and Sidney Licht Award in recognition of excellence in scientific writing in rehabilitation medicine in 2012. Yuen Shan C. Lee, PhD Senior Psychologist | Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Dr. Lee specializes in the treatment of concussion and traumatic brain injury. She provides neuropsychological assessments, cognitive rehabilitation, and individual and group psychotherapy. She received the Dr. Lee and Linda Rosenbaum Family Award through Yeshiva University for excellence in clinical health and served as an Asian American Psychological Association leadership fellow. William Lu, PsyD Senior Psychologist | Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Rehabilitation Psychology Dr. Lu’s special interests include traumatic brain injury, sleep and memory processing, mindfulness, neuropsychological testing, and cognitive remediation. Dr. Lu has published in the areas of traumatic brain injury and sleep and memory processing. He completed a postdoctoral fellowship in rehabilitation research at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. Bonnie Marks, PsyD Dr. Marks specializes in rehabilitation psychology, traumatic brain injury, concussion, sports psychology, and mindfulness for stress management. She works in the Brain Injury Day Treatment program and performs concussion evaluations. She has received the Dr. Alfred H. Schwartz and Iris Nelson-Schwartz Humanitarian Award from the National Rehabilitation Association, Metropolitan Chapter. David McCabe, PhD Dr. McCabe provides neuropsychological assessment and treatment for people who have TBI and other neurological conditions impacting cognitive, behavioral, and psychological functioning. He provides cognitive remediation and psychotherapy, in individual and group formats. Dr. McCabe completed a two-year postdoctoral fellowship in clinical neuropsychology at Henry Ford Health System in Detroit, Michigan. Jamie Cepeda, DPT Senior Physical Therapist Dr. Cepeda treats people who have concussions and other types of brain injuries. He evaluates their needs, helps develop a treatment plan, and assists people as they learn the skills they need to live independently and return to their normal activities. Bretton K. Eisenhardt, PT, DPT Staff Physical Therapist | Physical Therapy, Sports Physical Therapy Dr. Eisenhardt is a board-certified orthopedic specialist with a passion for exercise and fitness. He completed an orthopedic residency program through New York University and enjoys guiding patients to their best possible health. He utilizes his knowledge in integrative lifestyle management and special interest in yoga to assist patients in their recovery process from concussion-related injuries. TI Teresa Iodice-Dadin, MA, PT, CCTT Ms. Iodice-Dadin is a certified craniofacial and cervical therapist. She specializes in treating disorders of the head and neck, including headache and temporomandibular joint disorders, related to concussion and other injuries. She performs advanced manual therapy with osteopathic training. Mira T. Kaufman, PT, DPT Physical Therapy, Sports Physical Therapy Dr. Kaufman is a board-certified orthopedic specialist. She has a special interest in working with people recovering from concussion-related injuries and limitations. She helps them get back to their normal activities and responsibilities, as well as sports and exercise. Daniel A. Peredo, PT, DPT Senior Physical Therapist | Physical Therapy, Sports Physical Therapy Dr. Peredo is a board-certified orthopedic specialist. He has a special interest in the management and treatment of post-concussion symptoms and related injuries. He enjoys assisting those with post-concussion symptoms return to their daily activities and passions, including sports and exercise. Clinical Specialist | Physical Therapy, Sports Physical Therapy, TMJ Physical Therapy Dr. Ross is a board-certified orthopedic specialist and a physical therapy clinical specialist. He is committed to helping individuals recover from post-concussion symptoms and has a special interest in athletes seeking to return to their sport. Mark Schulingkamp, DPT, OCS Dr. Schulingkamp is a board-certified orthopedic specialist. He helps people who have experienced concussion return to work, school, sports, and other activities. Pamela Singer, MSW, LCSW Senior Social Worker Ms. Singer has a master’s degree in social work from NYU. Ms. Singer has spoken extensively about the emotional issues inherent to brain injury and concussion, as well as the importance of groups in rehabilitation. Speech–Language Pathology Elizabeth E. Galletta, PhD Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Dr. Galletta focuses on patient-reported symptoms in the evaluation of individuals with acquired speech–language and cognitive–communication disorders. As a certified brain injury specialist trainer (CBIST) she contributes to a team of neurogenic speech–language pathologists treating patients who have persistant post-concussion symptoms. She mentors clinicians, students, and volunteer interns on topics including group treatment/community groups, aphasia, and cognitive rehabilitation. Her research focuses on combining methods that promote neuroplasticity with behavioral treatment. Karen Gendal, MA, CCC-SLP Clinical Specialist Ms. Gendal’s expertise is in the evaluation and treatment of people with a variety of motor, speech, language, and cognitive communication impairments, including those with concussion. Shap Shadravan, MS, CCC-SLP, CBIS Ms. Shadravan is a clinical specialist on Rusk Rehabilitation’s speech–language Pathology team in both the inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation setting. Her clinical experience includes the evaluation and treatment of patients with neurogenic communication impairments as well as patients with medically complex and cardiopulmonary diagnoses. Vestibular Therapy Joseph T. Adams, DPT Physical Therapy, Neurologic Physical Therapy, Vestibular Therapy Dr. Adams is a board-certified specialist in neurologic rehabilitation with advanced training in vestibular rehabilitation and has been working with patients with dizziness and vertigo due to head injuries for over 10 years. He is actively involved in clinical research on brain injury rehabilitation, vestibular outcome measures, reactive balance, post-concussion syndrome, and early mobilization for patients after brain tumor resection. He is the author of Vestibular Rehabilitation for the NCS Exam , and lectures regularly as an adjunct professor. Natalie Catterall, PT, DPT Senior II Physical Therapist | Physical Therapy, Vestibular Therapy Dr. Catterall treats vestibular dysfunctions following concussions as well as other brain injuries. Her individualized treatment approach aims to improve dizziness and balance. She is dedicated to assisting her patients in improving towards previous level of function through her patient- centered care. KC Katie Ann Connors, PT, DPT Dr. Connors treats people who have a variety of neurological injuries, including neck pain, and helps them return to activity after concussion. She practices in the outpatient department at Rusk Rehabilitation. Tara Denham, MA, PT Outpatient Program Manager Ms. Denham specializes in vestibular therapy for people with concussions. In addition, she supervises therapists who treat people in need of vestibular therapy and developed the vestibular concussion program at NYU Langone. She is involved in research about concussions and vestibular dysfunction and lectures nationally and internationally on the topic of vestibular rehabilitation. Jennifer L. Fay, DPT Clinical Specialist | Physical Therapy, Vestibular Therapy Dr. Fay specializes in treating people who have concussions and other types of brain injuries. She works with patients and families, educating them about the condition and assisting patients with their return to work, school, or sports. She is the lead clinician on a research project related to concussions and vestibular dysfunction. Nicolina Keneipp, PT, DPT, NCS Dr. Keneipp is a board-certified neurologic clinical specialist and has advanced training in vestibular rehabilitation. She treats vestibular dysfunctions following concussions as well as other brain injuries. She is dedicated to assisting her patients improve function and return to meaningful activities with an individualized, patient-centered treatment approach. Artmis D. Youssefnia, PT Senior Physical Therapist | Physical Therapy, Vestibular Therapy Ms. Youssefnia treats people experiencing vestibular dysfunction after concussions and other types of brain injuries. She is a board-certified geriatric specialist and has advanced training in working with older adults. She helps people return to normal activities and evaluates, treats, and educates patients and families about the condition. Akirrah Cooper, DACM, ATC Dr. Cooper received a bachelor’s degree in athletic training from Dominican College and is a registered and licensed athletic trainer. She has worked in many different clinical settings, helping to expand her knowledge of various methods and treatment plans used in sports rehabilitation programs. Ms. Cooper is also licensed in acupuncture and herbal medicine by the State of New York and is recognized as a Doctor of Chinese Medicine by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine. She also graduated from Pacific College of Oriental Medicine and is skilled in all primary Chinese medicine modalities, including acupuncture, moxibustion, herbal formulas, cupping, gua sha, and tui na. In her role as an athletic trainer, she provides community outreach concerning the prevention, evaluation, management, treatment, and rehabilitation of athletic injuries. Anthony Jones, ATC, CSCS Mr. Jones is a certified athletic trainer with a degree from Stony Brook University and certification as a strength and conditioning specialist. Before working at NYU Langone, he worked with the athletic training program at NYU Langone Hopsital—Long Island. Anthony has experience with various high school programs and at the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s Division III level. In his role as an athletic trainer, he is responsible for managing injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation of athletic injuries in conjunction with other members of the sports health team. He also supports outreach opportunities as well as sports health and Concussion Center initiatives. Timothy Muse, ATC Mr. Muse is a certified athletic trainer with a degree from the University of New Hampshire. Before working for NYU Langone, he worked as the head athletic trainer at the secondary school level. In his role as an athletic trainer, he is responsible for managing injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation of athletic injuries in conjunction with other members of the Sports Health team. He also supports outreach opportunities and Sports Health and Concussion Center initiatives. Pediatric Care Team Molly Bucciero, MS, OTL/L Pediatric Occupational Therapist Ms. Bucciero is a registered and licensed occupational therapist with advanced training in visual rehabilitation. She evaluates and treats children from birth to age 21 who have visual conditions and visual symptoms related to both traumatic and nontraumatic brain injuries. MeganConklin, PT, DPT Program Manager, Pedatric Therapy Services Dr. Conklin is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric physical therapy and is the pediatric physical therapy supervisor at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital. She has advanced training in pediatric vestibular rehabilitation, and evaluates and treats children and teenagers who have vestibular symptoms and TBI. Iona D’Sa, CCC-SLP Speech–Language Pathology Supervisor Ms. D’Sa has extensive pediatric experience, particularly in the area of childhood brain injury. She is responsible for program development, goal setting, and education of speech–language pathologists and other team members on the topics of pediatric brain injury occurrence, speech and language symptoms, assessment and intervention, and outcome measures. Jessica Hubert, PT, DPT, NCS, CSCS Dr. Hubert is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric and neurologic physical therapy. She is a certified strength and conditioning specialist and is a certified brain injury specialist. She evaluates and treats children and teenagers who have vestibular symptoms and traumatic and nontraumatic brain injury. Allison U. Lam, PT, DPT Physical Therapy Supervisor Dr. Lam is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric physical therapy. She oversees clinical programming for pediatric concussion at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital. She has advanced training in both adult and pediatric vestibular rehabilitation. She evaluates and treats children and teenagers who have vestibular symptoms and traumatic and nontraumatic brain injury. Carol Rosen, PhD Dr. Rosen provides neuropsychological evaluations and psychotherapy to children, adolescents, and young adults with various medical conditions. She also consults with schools to help her patients return to the classroom after a concussion. Dr. Rosen has published in the areas of self-concept and emotional–behavioral functioning of children with brachial plexus birth injury as well as the effects of chemotherapy on cognitive functioning. Many rehabilitation services are available at our 4,000-square-foot , a unique space in New York City that brings together multiple specialists to ensure you receive comprehensive care for your injury. We also provide concussion care on Long Island and in Brooklyn. Our space was designed for people who’ve had concussions: Lighting is dim, colors are tranquil, and there are no televisions or other distractions that could be uncomfortable for someone recovering from a concussion. The Concussion Center is staffed by physical therapists, occupational therapists, psychologists, social workers, and speech–language pathologists who specialize in concussion treatment. We provide vision rehabilitation to improve visual, perceptual, and motor skills, such as reading, writing, computer use, and other work- and school-related activities. Vocational therapy is also available to help people return to the workplace after a concussion. We also offer general orthopedic physical therapy for musculoskeletal injuries related to concussion, vestibular rehabilitation to maximize the body’s natural ability to compensate for symptoms of dizziness and balance disorders, and an exertional therapy program to help you return to sports and activity. Problems with understanding or producing written and verbal language are addressed as well. Our speech–language pathologists provide therapies that maximize memory and attention skills and aid in the understanding of language. The goal is to help people reclaim their independence by teaching strategies that can be used at home, work, and in school. In addition, we offer neuropsychology and rehabilitation psychology services, including cognitive and psychological assessment, cognitive remediation, and individual and group psychological interventions. Stem Cell Treatments in Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine Specialists at NYU Langone’s use stem cell therapies as part of a comprehensive treatment plan for musculoskeletal injuries and conditions. Stem cells are a special type of cell. Some types, given the right conditions, can develop into different types of cells, such as muscle, bone, cartilage, blood, or nerve cells. Evidence suggests that for some conditions, injecting stem cells into the damaged tissue reduces inflammation and pain, improves function, and may help the tissue to heal and regrow. Stem cells can also interact with other blood cells to stimulate the immune system and act as powerful anti-inflammatory agents. Adult Mesenchymal Stem Cells At NYU Langone, we use adult mesenchymal stem cells, which are retrieved from bone marrow or fat tissue, and then concentrated into a solution that is injected directly into damaged tissue. Our experts use these stem cell injections to help treat orthopedic conditions, including the following: damage to, or fracture of the cartilage of the ankle, knee, or elbow; also called osteochondral injuries During a stem cell therapy procedure, your doctor may retrieve stem cells from fat tissue, also called adipose tissue, or your own bone marrow. To take stem cells from your bone marrow, the doctor thoroughly numbs an area at your pelvic bone and then uses a syringe to extract bone marrow fluid, also known as bone marrow aspirate. The solution is concentrated into a serum that is injected directly in the affected tissue. Fat tissue is also an abundant supply of stem cells and other factors. Your doctor removes fat tissue from your abdomen after numbing the area or while you are under anesthesia. The stem cells are separated from the fat and then injected into the affected joint or tissue. After stem cell therapy, your doctor may recommend that you avoid taking anti-inflammatory medications for up to several weeks. Your doctor may also advise you to limit activity while the injury heals. Depending on your condition or injury, you may experience improved function and pain relief within six weeks. You doctor will explain what to expect after treatment. Financial Assistance for Dancers provides medical care to injured dancers who may not otherwise be able to pay for treatment. Care at our is provided by physicians who donate their time and professional services. Some costs may be covered by public or private sources. International students may also qualify for financial assistance. Resources for Dancers During COVID-19 The following organizations and funds offer assistance to individual dancers and artists, organizations, or both. Alliance of Artists Communities Emergency Relief Programs American Guild of Musical Artists COVID-19 Resource COVID-19 Freelance Artist Resources Dance/NYC Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources for the NYC Dance Community Dance/NYC COVID-19 Dance Relief Fund National Coalition for Arts’ Preparedness and Emergency Response Resources New York Foundation for the Arts Emergency Resources Rauschenberg Medical Emergency Grants The Dance Union NYC Dancers Relief Fund Financial Counseling Patient financial counselors are available to discuss any outstanding financial responsibilities not covered by insurance. We can help you apply for assistance from government programs or from our financial assistance program You can reach a patient financial counselor by calling or by visiting us in the lobby of the Vilcek Institute of Graduate Biomedical Sciences at 560 First Avenue, Monday through Friday from 8:00AM to 5:00PM. Special Assistance Fund In 1997, the LuEsther T. Mertz Advised Fund at the New York Community Trust made a challenge gift to the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries to create an endowment that would ensure a long-term solution for providing dancers with access to healthcare when they don’t have insurance or other financial means. Dancers with a proven financial need are eligible for support by this endowment if they complete an application and submit proof of income, savings, and expenses. To find out more about the special assistance fund and to receive an application, please call Medicaid Office Locations If you are interested in seeing if you are eligible for Medicaid, a federal healthcare program for people who meet certain income guidelines, please view a list of office locations in the New York metropolitan area. Pancreatic Disease Program Clinical Care Team The clinical care team at NYU Langone’s provides comprehensive care to people with pancreatic cancer, pancreatitis, pancreatic cysts, and other conditions of the pancreas. Our experts are conveniently located in New York City and on Long Island. The Pancreatic Disease Program is led by esteemed leaders in gastroenterology, medical oncology, and surgery. Advanced Endoscopy Gastrointestinal Oncology, Medical Oncology Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Surgical Oncology, General Surgery Gastroenterology and Advanced Endoscopy Seth A. Gross, MD Gastroenterology, Advanced Endoscopy Gregory B. Haber, MD Eileen Janec, MD Lauren G. Khanna, MD Jessica Widmer, DO Gary B. Deutsch, MD Surgical Oncology, Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Melanoma Surgery Greg Sacks, MD, MPH, PhD Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Surgical Oncology John D. Allendorf, MD Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Endocrine Surgery Megan D. Winner, MD Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Medical Oncology Nina Beri, MD Jennifer Chuy, MD Shun Yu, MD Radiation Oncology Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD Fauzia Shaikh, MD Christopher G. Gharibo, MD Radiology Hersh Chandarana, MD Abdominal Imaging, Radiology Chenchan Huang, MD Abdominal Imaging Nutrition and Psychology Our registered dietitian, Arielle Leben, MS, RD, CDN, works closely with the people we treat to offer personalized nutrition guidance about making healthy food choices, meal planning, and dietary supplements. Our clinical psychologist, Jessica A. Gerson, PhD, provides care to people with pancreatic conditions and those who have had or will have pancreatic surgery. She offers short-term individual psychotherapy and runs support groups. A left ventricular assist device (LVAD) is a mechanical device that is surgically implanted in the body to help a heart that has been weakened by or cardiogenic shock to pump blood through the body. It is designed for people with advanced heart failure who are currently awaiting a or those who are not transplant candidates. Video: Making Heart Failure a Manageable Condition , our team offers commercially available long-term devices. In recent years, LVADs have become smaller, quieter, and more portable, significantly improving the quality of life for patients. Your cardiac specialist performs an extensive medical evaluation to determine your eligibility for an LVAD . Prior to surgery, our experts explain the details of LVAD surgery and provide information on your recovery and rehabilitation plan. Our heart failure surgeons are specially trained and certified to implant LVADs. The devices are implanted and connected to the left ventricle, or bottom left heart chamber, and the aorta, the main artery leaving the heart. A cable that powers the pump exits the body through the abdomen and connects to a controller and battery packs, which are recharged nightly. When the surgery is complete, the LVAD takes over the pumping function of the left side of the heart, working in tandem with the right side of the heart to pump blood through your body. Recovering from LVAD Surgery The procedure to implant an LVAD takes place at in Manhattan or in Mineola. After surgery, your recovery begins in the intensive care unit, where our cardiac experts monitor your health. As you regain strength, you may begin with rehabilitation experts from NYU Langone’s . Your hospital stay may last from two to four weeks. Doctors from NYU Langone’s carefully evaluate people who have symptoms of advanced to determine if they are candidates for this lifesaving, heart-assisting device. Heart failure symptoms can include severe fatigue, shortness of breath with limited activity, and a frequent buildup of fluid in the body that has led to repeated hospitalizations. For people with advanced heart failure who are awaiting a , an LVAD may be surgically implanted and remain in place for several years until a donor heart becomes available. For people who are not candidates for a heart transplant, an LVAD can be permanently implanted, with the goal of extending a person’s life as well as improving quality of life. Reasons for ineligibility for a heart transplant can include other major health issues that may interfere with the success of a transplant. An LVAD may not be recommended for people with major brain injuries, serious infections, severe kidney failure, or other life-threatening conditions. Platelet-Rich Plasma Injections in Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine use platelet-rich plasma alone or in combination with other treatments to help musculoskeletal injuries and conditions heal more quickly and reduce pain and inflammation. Platelets, along with red blood cells and white blood cells, are one of the solid components of blood. These sticky cell fragments cause blood to clot; growth factors, found in platelets, play an important part in how the body heals itself. Plasma is the liquid part of blood. It is mostly water, but also contains proteins and other nutrients. Platelet-rich plasma, or PRP, is made by combining a concentrated solution of platelets with plasma, which your doctor injects directly into the damaged tissue. There is evidence suggesting platelet-rich plasma can improve function and reduce pain in people with the following acute or chronic conditions: damage to, or fracture of, the cartilage of the ankle, knee, or elbow; also called osteochondral injuries Platelet-Rich Plasma Treatment To receive platelet-rich plasma, your doctor takes a small amount of your blood from a vein in your arm and then uses a device called a centrifuge to separate the platelets and growth factors from other parts of the blood. This solution is placed in a syringe, and your doctor injects it directly into the affected tissue, using ultrasound guidance if necessary for precision and accuracy. This is an in-office procedure and usually takes no more than 30 minutes. After the treatment, you may experience soreness at the injection site for a few days. Your doctor may advise you to avoid anti-inflammatory medications for up to several weeks after the procedure. This is because the platelet-rich plasma injection stimulates the body’s inflammatory response, a key part of healing that these medications could block. After a platelet-rich plasma injection, your doctor may also advise you to limit or avoid activity for up to six weeks, depending on the injury or condition, to allow it to heal. How soon you experience relief, and how long that relief lasts, depends on several factors, including the severity of your injury or condition. Your doctor will explain what you can expect. At NYU Langone’s Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center, the Joint Preservation Registry aims to advance personalized medicine in orthopedic and musculoskeletal care. Currently focusing on cartilage damage and osteoarthritis of the knee , the registry captures and combines clinical, biomarker, and outcome data over a five-year period to improve the treatment of knee osteoarthritis. The goal is to identify patients who may benefit from joint-preserving procedures, and those who may consider total joint replacement as a treatment option. Rheumatologist Dr. Jonathan Samuels examines a patient. All patients of who have knee complaints are encouraged to enroll. As an observational study, participation does not require any changes to standard procedures. Study participants are not required to come in for extra visits, nor are they turned away from coming into the clinic as part of a study exercise. Patients continue to participate in their own treatment decisions, and can rest assured that time with their physician is not disrupted. Participants are asked to answer a brief survey via email once a year. The survey asks about at-home treatments used for their condition, the development of new complaints, and the long-term outcome of their condition. All patient data is de-identified to protect the confidentiality of all study participants. As part of the registry, our researchers are analyzing: the effectiveness of alternative, nonsurgical treatments the relationship between individual patient characteristics and the response to particular treatment alternatives, as captured by patient-reported outcome scores the potential for using biomarkers to make treatment decisions for an individual patient the use of advanced radiologic imaging and high-strength MRI units to characterize joint damage Patients interested in participating in the Joint Preservation Registry should discuss participation with their NYU Langone physician. At NYU Langone’s Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center, part of , we provide treatment for an array of joint-related conditions. Our team provides treatment for a wide variety of joint-related conditions. We treat injuries that affect the following areas of the body. Knee Conditions We provide treatment for , as well as anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) , posterior cruciate ligament injuries, and medial collateral ligament and lateral collateral ligament injuries. We care for cartilage and meniscus defects, patella instability, osteochondritis dissecans, and other types of knee deformities. Hip Conditions We treat patients with a variety of hip conditions, including osteoarthritis of the hip , hip cartilage injuries, osteonecrosis, dislocation, instability, and We also provide treatment for femoral acetabular impingement and other disorders of the acetabulum, developmental and congenital hip dysplasia , snapping hip, and piriformis syndrome, more commonly known as compression of the sciatic nerve near the hip joint. Shoulder Conditions osteoarthritis of the shoulder shoulder dislocation and instability. Among the other shoulder conditions we treat are acromioclavcular joint injuries, thoracic outlet syndrome Multi-Joint Arthritis We also provide treatment for all inflammatory arthritis conditions affecting more than one joint, including osteoarthritis, , gout, and At the Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center, we use a range of nonsurgical and surgical treatments to relieve pain and restore joint function without the immediate need for a total joint replacement. Depending on your particular condition, we may recommend oral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate, or topical anti-inflammatory gels and creams. Corticosteroid, or cortisone, is a type of medication that greatly reduces inflammation and can be used to manage a variety of acute and chronic conditions. We perform injections with imaging, such as ultrasound or fluoroscopic guided techniques. Other options include injecting hyaluronic acid—the substance that cushions and lubricates joints—directly into the joint to help ease pain; platelet rich plasma therapy, which involves using a component of a patient’s own blood to heal damaged parts of the joint; stem cell therapy that delivers a patient’s own stem cells into arthritic or injured joints to provide long-lasting relief from pain; and physical therapy. Alternative therapies are also available, such as acupuncture and Active Release Techniques (ART). Surgical Treatments If you require surgery, we offer a number of advanced options. These include surgical microfracture, in which tiny holes created in the bone introduce fresh blood and bone marrow to the site of an injury; procedures that transfer healthy cartilage to the site of a damaged or injured joint; meniscus repair and transplantation; a range of surgeries to realign or repair damage to the hip or knee; and total or partial joint replacement when the time is right. NYU Langone certified athletic trainers provide services to youth, high school, college, university, and professional teams. They also offer services to performing arts groups in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Queens, Long Island, and Westchester County. Among the services our athletic trainers provide are the following: sports injury management, including providing immediate care when an injury occurs and continuing care throughout recovery design and implementation of injury prevention programs creation and supervision of rehabilitation programs that allow athletes to safely return to their sport coverage of sports events, competitions, and practices, providing first aid and emergency care of acute injuries, such as sprains, fractures, and concussions management of concussion, including injury assessment, monitoring athlete recovery progress, and return to sport following concussion protocols sports performance enhancement through programs that target conditioning, strength training, and corrective exercises health and wellness education covering subjects including topics such as hydration, injury prevention, nutrition, and rest and recovery collaboration with healthcare professionals to ensure comprehensive care for athletes Athletic trainers and physical therapists with our , provide numerous outreach, educational, research, and clinical services to the performing arts community through our . We treat performers at their theater or studio and provide early interventions for orthopedic injuries. We offer the performers we care for priority referrals into NYU Langone’s extensive medical network for further evaluation and care when necessary. View our ever-expanding list of dance clients and meet our team of athletic trainers Community Outreach & Education NYU Langone athletic trainers also provide education to athletes, students, parents, coaches, teachers, school nurses and the community about a variety of health-related topics that affect student athletes, including the following: cardiac conditions in sports concussion education emergency action plans heat stroke, heat exhaustion, frost bite and hypothermia musculoskeletal injuries To learn more about the full array of services we provide, contact Matt Manu, program manager, at 646-825-0472 Our Athletic Trainers Mr. Manu is a certified athletic trainer with experience in secondary school and professional settings. He holds a master’s of public administration from LIU Post and a bachelor of science in athletic training from Hofstra University. In his role as Program Manager, he oversees the day-to-day operations of the Athletic Training Program and outreach for Sports Health and the Mr. Jones earned his degree from Stony Brook University and is certified as both an athletic trainer and strength and conditioning specialist. He has experience with various high school programs and at the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s Division III level. In his role as an athletic trainer, he provides injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation of sports injuries, and educates coaches, parents, and athletes about sports injuries and injury prevention. Mr. Muse is a certified athletic trainer with a degree from the University of New Hampshire. Before joining NYU Langone, he worked as a head athletic trainer at the secondary school level. In his role as an athletic trainer, he provides injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation of sports injuries, and educates coaches, parents, and athletes about sports injuries and injury prevention. David Dorismond, MS, ATC Mr. Dorismond graduated from Stony Brook University with a bachelor’s degree and from Western Kentucky University with a master’s degree in recreation and sports administration. He is a certified athletic trainer. He had worked at both high school and collegiate levels, supporting athletes in injury prevention, first aid, emergency care, rehabilitation, concussion management, and health education. In his role, he provides injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation. EleniGeorgiadis, ATC Ms. Georgiadis earned her bachelor’s degree in athletic training from Hofstra University and is a certified athletic trainer. Before joining NYU Langone, she worked as head athletic trainer at Oyster Bay High School and has experience at both the secondary school and collegiate levels, as well as in physician clinics. In her role, she specializes in injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation. JadaTyson, ATC Ms. Tyson graduated from Stony Brook University with a bachelor’s degree and is a certified athletic trainer. Before joining NYU Langone Health, she served as head athletic trainer at the secondary school level and worked as a physician extender at an orthopedic clinic. She has experience working with collegiate athletes at various tournaments and is proficient in fitting custom orthopedic durable medical equipment such as knee braces and orthotics. In her role, she provides injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation. Sports Health Partners experts offer education programs, sports training and performance services, and medical support through partnerships with organizations and events throughout New York City and beyond. Bike New York As the official healthcare partner of , we work to ensure the health and safety of their members and riders who participate in the annual TD Five Boro Bike Tour and other events such as the Discover Hudson Valley Ride and Twin Lights Ride. We provide education opportunities and expertise through seminars, workshops, and programs on topics such as group training, youth cycling, proper helmet fit, and injury prevention. Brooklyn Italians Soccer Club We are proud to be official team doctors as well as official medical services provider to the storied . In addition to providing medical coverage for the league during all matches, our certified athletic trainers and doctors offer the team educational content as well as injury prevention advice and general sports health guidance. Life Time Through our partnership with , the sports health team collaborates on health and wellness initiatives and programs, and work with Life Time members to meet their fitness and performance goals. We are also proud to be the official healthcare partner of one of Life Time’s flagship events, the New York City Triathlon , helping athletes plan and prepare for race day. We offer training, recovery, and injury prevention tips, as well as performance services to help athletes achieve their personal best. Our specialists provide medical services and support during this iconic race. USA Football Together with , we work to enhance the health, safety, and wellbeing of young athletes as part of our Team Health initiative. Our experts provide guidance and recommendations for youth football leagues, coaches, and parents with the goal of creating the safest possible environment for players to build their skills while fueling their passion for the game. USA Nordic As an official medical services provider of , our Sports Health experts ensure the safety and wellbeing of the U.S. National and U.S. Junior National teams for ski jumping and Nordic combined. Our clinical team provides preseason physicals, preventive care, and injury care, and our offers performance testing and nutrition education. Our sports health team also partners with USA Nordic on community and educational events to encourage involvement and knowledge of Nordic skiing. Photo: USA Nordic Sport Sports Rehabilitation Services NYU Langone’s sports rehabilitation team, part of , is renowned for their skill and expertise in helping athletes and active people of all ages return to their chosen sport or activity after a musculoskeletal injury, surgery, or other procedure. For every person we see, our physiatrists—doctors who specialize in physical medicine and rehabilitation—collaborate with our psychologists, physical therapists, occupational therapists, or certified hand therapists, to create a treatment plan that helps you recover strength, agility, and overall fitness, and prevent future injury. We also provide pre-surgery treatment plans designed to make recovery after surgery easier and faster. Our experts create a rehabilitation plan that accommodates your specific sport and needs. Our experts provide care to children and adolescents through the . We provide care to dancers and dance companies through our Our physiatrists use the most sophisticated diagnostic tools, including musculoskeletal ultrasound, nerve condition studies, and electromyogram. These tests help doctors discover the source and extent of your injury or condition, measure the electrical activity in a nerve, and test how the nerves and muscles work together. In addition to working with our rehabilitation team, your treatment plan may include image-guided injections, acupuncture, bracing, and medications to reduce pain and inflammation or speed healing. We also provide guidance about how to manage changes to your training regimen caused by injury, surgery, or pain, and offer guidance about how to avoid future injury. Experts at our provide world-class conditioning and strength-training expertise to help you return safely to your sport at peak physical and mental readiness. Our team offers if you prefer not to travel or would rather receive care in the comfort of your own home or another location that is most convenient for you. Sports Injuries We Treat Our team provides rehabilitation services for a complete range of musculoskeletal injuries and conditions. Below are some of the most common we treat. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks Rusk Rehabilitation among the top 5 programs in the nation for rehabilitation. Head, Neck, and Spine Sports Injuries compression fractures nerve impingement radiculopathy Shoulder, Elbow, Wrist, and Hand Sports Injuries Hip, Knee, Ankle, and Foot Sports Injuries , posterior cruciate ligament (PCL), and medial collateral ligament (MCL) injuries foot and ankle sprains iliotibial band syndrome knee dislocations and patellar tendinitis, also called jumper’s knee runner’s knee Our team also provides rehabilitation services for sports injuries and conditions of the hips, shins, feet, and ankles, including of the shoulder, elbow, knee, and hip. In addition, we provide rehabilitation services for illness or injury that results from overtraining or overreaching, which is a period of increased training. We also provide care for people with osteoarthritis of the , elbow, wrist, hand or ; stress fracture or stress reaction, which is an injury to the bone that occurs prior to a stress fracture; and tendinopathy in the heel, knee, shoulder, ankle, elbow, wrist, or hand. Additional Resources for Sports Rehabilitation NYU Langone’s Sports Health team regularly presents lectures and workshops that highlight ways for athletes to recover from and avoid injuries. Learn more about our Sports Health events Our Sports Rehabilitation Experts NYU Langone physiatrists, sports physical therapists sports occupational therapists , provide gold-standard care to athletes, dancers, and all active people. Julia L. Iafrate, DO Sports Medicine, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Maria Janakos, MD Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Sports Medicine Charles Kim, MD Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Pain Management Alex Moroz, MD, MHPE Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Orthopedic Rehabilitation, Sports Medicine Salvador E. Portugal, MBA, D.O. Renat R. Sukhov, MD Pediatric Rehabilitation Sports Pulmonology Services Healthy, strong lungs are essential for peak performance in all sports and activities, from basketball and soccer to hiking and cross-country skiing. Pulmonologists and cardiopulmonary rehabilitation specialists on NYU Langone’s team specialize in caring for the lungs of athletes and other active people. We treat the full range of respiratory conditions, all while focusing on your fitness as well as your overall health. In U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” rankings, NYU Langone is tied for No. 1 in the nation for pulmonology and lung surgery. Screening and Diagnostic Tests Pulmonologists at NYU Langone use a battery of sophisticated screening and diagnostic tools and tests, including the following: chest X-ray CT scan echocardiography, to screen for pulmonary hypertension, the term for high blood pressure in the vessels leading from the heart to the lungs fractional exhaled nitric oxide testing, which doctors use to detect and measure inflammation in your airways lung diffusing capacity testing, which measures how well your lungs exchange gases oxygen titration, which measures your oxygen needs at rest and during exercise plethysmography, a test that measures total lung capacity and that may be used to detect blood clots in the arms or legs lung ultrasound, a scan to find fluid in or around the lungs or a collapsed lung six-minute walk testing, which measures aerobic capacity and endurance spirometry, which measures how much and how quickly you move air out of your lungs pre and post spirometry, which is spirometry done before and after you have been given an inhaled medication screening for sleep-related breathing disorders, including cardiopulmonary stress test, to monitor pulmonary health and fitness in athletes and to gauge training improvements Our pulmonary medicine specialists diagnose and treat a full range of acute and chronic respiratory symptoms and conditions in athletes and other active people, including the following: chest injuries, such as lung bruise and rib fractures coughing or shortness of breath that occurs during exercise exercise-induced bronchospasm, also called exercise-induced asthma, a condition in which the airways tighten and make breathing difficult during or after exercise high-altitude pulmonary edema, a condition that causes excess fluid in the lungs in some athletes when they ascend to altitudes higher than 6,000 feet (1,800 meters) interstitial lung diseases, including and pulmonary lower respiratory infections, such as bronchitis and pneumonia We also offer treatment and training guidance for people living with chronic lung conditions who wish to become more active or participate in sports. Advanced Treatments Our team provides the most advanced treatment options available for your specific lung condition. These may include lifestyle recommendations, over-the-counter or prescription medicines, medical therapies such as airway clearance or oxygen therapy, or mechanical therapies, such as the use of a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) device. During or after the treatment of your lung condition, we may recommend you receive pulmonary rehabilitation , offered through , from a sports health cardiopulmonary rehabilitation doctor. These experts help you regain full pulmonary function and offer guidance about how to manage changes to your training routine while you recover. When you are full recovered, exercise physiologists at our can help you reach your maximum potential. Our Sports Pulmonology Medicine Experts NYU Langone pulmonologists and cardiopulmonary rehabilitation specialists are expert at working with athletes and other active people. Eric E. Bondarsky, MD Pulmonary Medicine, Critical Care Ezra E. Dweck, MD Bashar M. Mourad, DO Sports Rheumatology Services At NYU Langone, our rheumatologists have expertise in caring for athletes and active people of all ages with arthritis and autoimmune disorders that affect the joints and soft tissues. We offer a combination of nonsurgical approaches—medications and physical therapy to lifestyle modifications—to keep you on the playing field. Our goal for you is optimal health and performance in your chosen sport or activity. Our rheumatology experts offer the most sophisticated treatments available for a wide range of injuries and conditions. Treatment for Athletes with Arthritis Our experts treat all forms of arthritis in athletes, including the following: osteoarthritis of in adults juvenile arthritis in children gout, a type of arthritis in which crystals of a substance called uric acid deposit in the big toe or other joints, causing pain and swelling For these and all conditions we help people manage, we use conservative nonsurgical treatments. These may include anti-inflammatory, immunosuppressive, immunomodulatory, or pain relief medications, as well as therapeutic injections of corticosteroids, hyaluronic acid, or other natural substances that can reduce inflammation or speed healing. Description: U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 10 hospitals in the country for rheumatology. We may also recommend lifestyle-focused therapies. Depending on factors including your sport and goals, these may include strength-training or cross-training; sports-focused physical therapy and rehabilitation, offered through ; acupuncture; or guidance about nutrition and weight management. Throughout the treatment process, we collaborate with specialists on the Sports Health team to give you sport-specific training advice and recommendations to help you maintain fitness. For some people with arthritis, surgery may be recommended. In this case, we refer you to a member of NYU Langone’s sports orthopedic surgery team Treatment for Athletes with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Our rheumatologists provide medical treatment as well as athletic training advice for with systemic lupus erythematosus and other connective tissue diseases. Our team helps you navigate the complexities of these disorders while remaining fit and active. In addition, we have special expertise in caring for pregnant athletes with lupus. Our Sports Rheumatology Team Brian D. Golden, MD Philip J. Kahn, MD Pediatric Rheumatology Jonathan Samuels, MD Our experts are at the forefront of the latest research and innovation in sports medicine and exercise science. They’re also athletes and coaches themselves, with a deep understanding of their patients’ drive to stay active and achieve their personal best. “My medical team accommodated my insane schedule and bent over backward to make sure that I was able to achieve my goals as an athlete.” —Miye D’Oench, Right Wing, Metropolitan Riveters, Age 25; Read All Sports Health Patient Stories We host a wide variety of sports health events covering the intersection of sports and health—from lectures and workshops for the community to conferences and continuing medicine education for professionals—where we share this valuable information with athletes as well as sports health leaders in the field. Learn more about our upcoming events. Sports Performance and Wellness Lectures We host sports performance and wellness community lectures on a variety of topics. From planning an exercise program for the holiday season to learning how athletes can decrease risk for injury and perform at their best, you’ll get practical tips to keep you at the top of your game. Watch some of our previous lectures on Please register using our online form. For additional information, please contact John Salvatore at John.Salvatore@NYULangone.org or Jennifer Gallinaro at Jennifer.Gallinaro@NYULangone.org Rusk Rehabilitation Community Lecture Series Patients and sports medicine specialists alike can benefit from NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation’s vast catalog of community lectures offered throughout the year. Experts discuss topics including sports injury rehabilitation, orthopedic and musculoskeletal rehabilitation, and pediatric rehabilitation. View our community lecture series calendar Continuing Medical Education Activities Clinicians and other healthcare professionals can receive valuable information from our wide range of CME activities on sports and health-related topics. Our educational programs include conferences, courses, and workshops. At NYU Langone’s Sports Performance Center at , we believe everyone, no matter their fitness level or exercise history, has an inner athlete. With proper instruction, training, and support, we can help you find yours. We rely on the latest fitness training research coupled with the most advanced testing equipment and expertise to help you identify and achieve your goals, whether they include managing an injury or clinical condition, surpassing a fitness plateau, or developing your full athletic potential. No matter your sport or fitness goals, you’ll get the help you need to improve at the Sports Performance Center. Learn about the science of longevity through our health and fitness evaluations Maximize your metabolic capacity Learn more about how to build resilience, tackle obstacles, and improve lifestyle behaviors during perimenopause and menopause Overcome injury with nutrition guidance tailored to your sport and personal needs. Discover the secrets to optimal marathon training See how one woman improved her strength, endurance, and overall fitness —and improved her chances of living a longer life—with help from the Sports Performance Center. Our Expert Staff sports performance staff brings unique expertise to your fitness program. Our team, led by center director Debbie Newman, includes registered clinical exercise physiologists who have certifications from the National Strength and Conditioning Association, American College of Sports Medicine, Functional Movement Systems, Titleist Performance Institute, and USA Track and Field. A registered health and sports dietitian, clinical nutritionist, and sports psychologist also help you meet your goals. Call us at to make an appointment. Sports Medicine at NYU Langone Sports Injury Rehabilitation We help patients return to physical activity after an injury or orthopedic surgery. Our care team helps everyone from professional athletes to everyday exercisers get back to the activities they enjoy. We provide championship-level care to athletes and active people. Sports Performance Center Newsletter Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Winter 2020 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Summer 2018 Spring 2018 Winter 2018 Fall 2017 Subscribe to Our Newsletter We are open Monday through Thursday from 7:00AM to 8:00PM and Friday from 7:00AM to 6:00PM. Community Wellness Lectures NYU Langone offers lectures for the community on a variety of health, wellness, and sports-specific topics. Client of Sports Performance Center Runs in Paris Marathon 646-754-3210 At the Center for Women’s Sports Medicine—part of at NYU Langone—we provide specialized care designed to help you achieve your athletic goals. Our goal is to help you recover after injury, so that you can return to your chosen activities and reach peak performance. We provide multidisciplinary care to athletes at all levels who want to maximize their performance. Our focus is on care for women and girls. However, we provide care to all athletes and active people, regardless of gender identity. Care for Women, by Women As specialists in sports medicine, orthopedic surgery, and physical medicine and rehabilitation—and as active New York City women ourselves—we understand that women’s bodies function differently than men’s. Anatomical and biomechanical differences put women at higher risk of certain sports-related injuries to the knees, hips, and shoulders. Women may also experience concussion differently than men. We not only care for these and other conditions using the most advanced treatments available, but we also work with you to prevent them from occurring or recurring. Common Sports Injuries We Treat Injuries and conditions we diagnose and treat include the following: shoulder injuries, including dislocation and instability, knee injuries, including anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears , kneecap dislocations and instability, and foot and ankle injuries, including sprains, tendon tears or tendinitis, and acute injuries and fractures overuse injuries, including golf and tennis elbow, osteochondritis dissecans or osteochondral lesions, tendinopathy, and wrist tendinitis, which is common during and after pregnancy We also diagnose and manage complex conditions such as endocrine or nutritional disorders that affect exercise and training, as well as endurance and mental barriers that prevent peak performance or hinder a return to activity injury. We collaborate with our Sports Health colleagues, who represent an array of specialties. Educational Events for Athletes In addition to presenting at national and international meetings, experts at the Center for Women’s Sports Medicine appear regularly on Doctor Radio on SiriusXM and in community events and lectures at high schools, colleges, and workplaces throughout New York City. Topics may include stretching before and after exercise; staying mindful of your body while being active; eating a healthy, balanced diet; and designing training schedules to prevent injury and maximize performance. Our Team of Providers Our sports health doctors collaborate with experts from various specialties to deliver multispecialty care that meets the specific health and performance needs of women and girls. Sonal Chaudhry Julie C. Delphin Hayley J. Goodall Melanie Graber Reena Loona Nicole Lund MPH, RDN Sports Nutrition Specialist Amy J. Patel Amanda Pechman Bethany R. Ridenhour Kim Schoenfeld Mariyam Wasay Interventional Spine Specialist Margaret Nachtigall We provide medical and surgical care and rehabilitation therapies for musculoskeletal conditions in children and adults. Our orthopedic surgeons and sports medicine doctors treat athletic, overuse, and everyday injuries. We help elite athletes and fitness novices achieve their health and fitness goals. Our rehabilitation experts provide care that meets your physical, social, emotional, cognitive, and psychological needs. Sports Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Services Otolaryngologists on the NYU Langone team provide medical and surgical care to athletes and other active people of all ages who have injuries or conditions that affect the ear, nose, and throat. From broken noses and swimmer’s ear to and chronic sinus infections, our experts, also called ear, nose, and throat (ENTs) specialists, work to get you back in the game feeling—and performing—your best. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 10 hospitals in the nation for ear, nose, and throat. Our experts provide care to children through Our ENTs diagnose and treat an array of conditions and injuries common to athletes and other active people, including the following: fractures to head and facial bones—including the temporal bones, cheekbones, eye sockets, and nose; and jaw fractures with no accompanying dental injury fracture of the larynx, or voice box external ear injuries—including auricular hematoma, in which blood pools under the tissue that covers the ear’s cartilage after an injury, as well as cauliflower ear, which develops after repeated and untreated trauma to the outer ear internal ear conditions—including exostoses, also known as surfer’s ear, an abnormal growth of bone in the ear canal caused by recurring infection or injury; ear infections; ear canal disorders such as eardrum injury or perforation; ear barotrauma, a condition in which a change in atmospheric pressure causes ear pain facial lacerations chronic sinusitis and other sinus disorders Voice Center , we also diagnose difficulty breathing during exercise caused by disorders of the vocal cords or larynx; stridor , or noisy breathing; and voice changes or hoarseness in adults and . In addition, we collaborate closely with our colleagues at . After your treatment, we may refer you there for physical therapy or speech–language pathology. Our Sports Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Experts NYU Langone ENTs specialize in caring for athletes and other active people of all ages. Milan R. Amin, MD Laryngology & Voice, Swallow and Airway Daniel Jethanamest, MD Otology & Neurotology, Skull Base Surgery Judy W. Lee, MD Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Cosmetic Plastic Surgery 212-263-9695 NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Center offers personalized and compassionate care for children and adults with neurofibromatosis (NF) types 1 and 2 and schwannomatosis. These disorders can cause tumors, which are usually benign, to form on nerves. Care of Neurofibromatosis Our team diagnoses and treats all types of neurofibromatosis and schwannomatosis. Our team of specialists is committed to researching better and safer treatments for people with neurofibromatosis. These conditions can affect many parts of the body. Because of this, we have put together a team of specialists to address the challenges our patients may experience. These specialists are part of the world-class team at NYU Langone. We are committed to researching better and safer treatments for people with NF. We lead clinical trials for NF , and are the only New York member of the Neurofibromatosis Clinical Trials Consortium. We have received the Affiliate Clinic designation from the Children’s Tumor Foundation, a nonprofit organization committed to ending NF through research. Care for children is provided through We have a nurse coordinator dedicated to helping patients and their families coordinate the care they need. To schedule an appointment, please contact our nurse coordinator, Carole Mitchell, MS, RN, at . If you are hearing impaired, please email carole.mitchell@nyulangone.org Our nurse coordinator discusses your needs by phone or email and determine which of our doctors best matches your specific condition and concerns. All prior imaging and medical records are requested. A social worker may contact you to assist with any special needs you may have. At your first appointment, a detailed physical and neurological exam is performed and all previous records and tests are reviewed. Depending on your diagnosis, we may recommend additional tests, such as imaging studies and genetic testing. The results of these tests will help determine the care plan that is best for you. Other NYU Langone experts—including behavioral and learning specialists, geneticists, neurosurgeons, orthopedic surgeons, audiologists, plastic surgeons, and ear, nose, and throat specialists (also known as otolaryngologists)—may assist in your care. Doctors at the Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Center come from a range of specialties including oncology, neurosurgery, and otolaryngology. Kaleb H. Yohay Sean O. McMenomey Otologist & Neurotologist J. Thomas Roland Jr. Devorah Segal Patients of the Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Center have access to our world-renowned neurosurgeons. Otology and Neurotology Group NYU Langone physicians care for conditions involving the ear and run one of the country’s largest auditory brainstem implant programs. Auditory Brainstem Implant Project Children with neurofibromatosis type 2 who may not qualify for or benefit from a cochlear implant may be eligible for this clinical study. Sports Gastroenterology Services Gastroenterologists on the NYU Langone team understand how uncomfortable and disruptive digestive issues like heartburn, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea can be for active people. Our experts diagnose the conditions that cause these symptoms and then create a treatment plan to help adults and children return to their sport or activity feeling great and performing at their best. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for gastroenterology and GI surgery. Our team members are part of renowned NYU centers and programs, including the Center for Esophageal Health Pediatric Gastroenterology Program . We work to diagnose and treat all gastrointestinal symptoms and conditions, from minor complaints to complex diseases, including the following: acid reflux, also called heartburn, as well as gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) eosinophilic esophagitis, a condition that causes difficulty swallowing—food often becomes stuck in the esophagus, leading to heartburn gastritis, an inflammation of the stomach lining that causes bloating, pain in the upper belly, nausea or vomiting, and fatigue inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) , including Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis, in adults irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) ischemic colitis—also known as runner’s diarrhea—a condition common in long-distance runners that causes pain in the lower abdomen, diarrhea, and blood in the stool during or after activity Our experts take a comprehensive approach to gastrointestinal symptoms and conditions and use leading-edge diagnostic tools—including colonoscopy performed with computer-aided detection, or artificial intelligence—and the most advanced treatments available. These may include lifestyle modifications, over-the-counter and prescription medications, as well as biologic therapies. For athletes and other active people whose condition is chronic or recurring, we create a personalized treatment plan with guidance about how to minimize its impact on your training and performance and ways to prevent recurrence. Our team also helps athletes and other active people maintain their health by offering colorectal cancer screening Our Sports Gastroenterology Experts Our experts work with athletes of all ages to improve their health and athletic performance. Jeremiah Levine, MD Pediatric Gastroenterology David B. Snell, MD Treatment at the Peripheral Nerve Center At NYU Langone’s Peripheral Nerve Center, our surgeons have access to advanced technology and use the most current surgical techniques. Our goal is to help you overcome injury and illness and improve your quality of life. Peripheral Nerve Conditions We Treat We provide treatment for many nerve conditions, including greater occipital nerve entrapment, hereditary predisposition to pressure palsies, neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome, pronator syndrome, radial tunnel syndrome, superficial sensory radial nerve entrapment, supinator syndrome, suprascapular nerve entrapment, and ulnar nerve compression at the elbow or the wrist. We also have one of the few advanced programs for the minimally invasive surgical treatment of hyperhidrosis, which is a condition that causes excessive sweating in the palms and soles of the feet that can interfere with patients’ quality of life. Dr. Noel Perin heads the program and specializes in endoscopic minimally invasive surgery. For certain patients, the surgery can greatly improve quality of life. Specialists at the Peripheral Nerve Center also treat people who have , double crush syndrome, meralgia paresthetica, Morton's neuroma, neurogenic pyriformis syndrome, peroneal nerve entrapment at the fibular head, and pudendal nerve entrapment. In addition, our doctors care for people with nerve injuries, including brachial plexus injuries, inguinal neuralgia, obturator nerve injury and entrapment, painful neuromas, peroneal nerve injury and foot drop, radial nerve injury, scapular winging, and spinal accessory nerve injury. We also offer treatment for peripheral nerve tumors, including lipomas involving nerves, malignant nerve sheath tumors and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors, metastatic and infiltrative tumors involving nerves, , plexiform neurofibromas, radiation plexitis, schwannoma, schwannomatosis, solitary neurofibromas, and synovial cyst. Peripheral Nerve Procedures When nerves have been cut or torn, our surgeons perform nerve repair surgery to reattach the nerve ends. If the damaged nerves are not long enough to stitch together, we perform a nerve graft from the leg or a nerve transplant using a donor. If a nerve graft is not feasible, we perform conduit nerve repair in which small, absorbable tubes, called conduits, are used to connect and protect the nerves. When a nerve is pulled from the spinal cord, such as when a person has a brachial plexus injury that affects the shoulder and arm, we perform either nerve transfer, using a nerve from another part of the body to restore movement, or end-to-side repair, which works to repair a partially functioning nerve. We also perform contralateral C7 transfer, using the nerve root from the seventh bone in the cervical spine from the unaffected side of the body to repair the injured brachial plexus. For severe brachial plexus injuries, muscle and tendon transfers may be considered. We also perform a procedure called neurolysis, either external or internal, to remove scar tissue that could trap nerves. Surgical Technology Our neurosurgeons use the latest in diagnostic and surgical technology to ensure your safety. Intraoperative Electrophysiological Monitoring in Peripheral Nerve Surgery When the affected nerve is exposed during surgery, very sensitive electrical testing can be performed. This testing, which is not possible through the skin before the surgery, helps guide the surgeon. This testing also helps surgeons determine whether a nerve should be replaced with a graft or if it has the potential to heal if surrounding scar tissue is removed. Other available intraoperative electrical tests can be used to monitor nerve function during tumor removal and to determine whether spinal rootlets, which connect nerve roots to the spinal cord, are intact during brachial plexus surgery. Peripheral Nerve Stimulation for Peripheral Nerve Disorders For severe nerve damage that does not respond to more conservative treatment, direct peripheral nerve stimulation may provide pain relief. This method works much like a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation unit, also known as TENS, but connects directly to the nerve, not the skin. Peripheral nerve stimulation can ease pain associated with supraorbital neuralgia, occipital neuralgia, and inguinal neuralgia. We also can provide tibial nerve stimulation for people who have had unsuccessful Morton's neuroma surgery. An electrode is placed on the nerve for a short trial period. If it helps, a small programmable pacemaker is placed under the skin. The unit can then deliver pain relief as needed and be switched off when the pain subsides. Psoriatic Arthritis Center 646-501-7400 645-754-9607 Some people with go on to develop , a condition that leads to itchy, sore patches on the skin in addition to joint pain. Treatment requires a coordinated effort by dermatologists and rheumatologists to help manage symptoms such as swelling, inflammation, and skin changes. At NYU Langone’s Psoriatic Arthritis Center, we treat more than 1,300 people each year, giving them access to traditional and newer medications. Our physicians and scientists are leading extensive research into providing the best care for patients with psoriatic arthritis, as well as studying the early events that may lead to developing the condition for insight into its origins. The center’s dermatologists, rheumatologists, and scientists use these discoveries to develop novel approaches to the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of psoriatic arthritis. Dr. Jill P. Buyon and Dr. Jose U. Scher We are also building upon recent discoveries made at NYU Langone regarding the microbiome, which are the microbes that live in and on the human body, and new-onset rheumatoid arthritis. We are using these observations to shed light on the potential microbial triggers of psoriatic arthritis. Our rheumatologists help provide relief for patients with psoriatic arthritis. The Psoriatic Arthritis Center is involved in numerous clinical trials that evaluate treatments for the condition. We work with NYU Langone’s Seligman Center for Advanced Therapeutics as well as the Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis Research Registry, which tracks participants to answer important questions regarding psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Our rheumatologists are experts at treating patients with psoriatic arthritis. Rebecca Haberman Andrea L. Neimann Dermatologist Jose U. Scher Psoriatic Arthritis Rheumatologist Gary E. Solomon IL-17 Activated HIF-1-alpha Drives Skin Inflammation. Study Helps Explain What Drives Psoriasis Severity & Spread At NYU Langone’s Latino Liver Program—part of the —we provide the most medically advanced and culturally conscious care to Hispanic and Latino children and adults who need or may need a liver transplant or liver surgery. By removing a potential language barrier, our bilingual hepatologists, transplant surgeons, and nurse practitioners help you and your family more easily understand and navigate the transplant or liver surgery process and receive the support you need before, during, and after surgery. In addition to being comfortable communicating in Spanish, the transplant hepatologists, surgeons, infectious disease specialists, pulmonologists, nephrologists, and nurse practitioners, general cardiologists, and heart failure specialists who make up our multidisciplinary team also understand the many cultural nuances within the larger Latino community. Liver transplant care for children is provided through the Pediatric Liver Disease and Transplant Program Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone Health . Our surgeons offer whole liver transplant, from a deceased donor; split liver transplant, in which the liver from a deceased donor is divided in two, providing organs for two different patients; and living donor transplant , in which a person donates a portion of their liver to the patient. Addressing a Growing Need In the United States, the rate of chronic liver disease among people of Hispanic and Latino ethnicity is twice that of the non-Hispanic White population. Currently, Hispanic and Latino people make up roughly 20 percent of both the national liver transplant waitlist and of liver transplant recipients. Significant disparities in access to liver transplantation exists for these groups in the form of lower referral rates to liver transplant centers, lower rates of placement on the liver transplant waitlist, higher waitlist removal rates, and lower liver transplant rates. Our goal is to help address these disparities. To learn more about NYU Langone’s Latino Liver Program, call 212-263-8133. Read about our program in Spanish Our team members are specialists in transplant hepatology, surgery, infectious diseases, pulmonology, nephrology, cardiology, and heart failure. Henry J. Neumann Cesar E. Fors Nieves We lead the field in heart, kidney, liver, lung, and pancreas transplantation. Pediatric Liver Disease & Transplant Program We deliver innovative and advanced treatment for liver disease that is personalized to each child. View All Locations (24) A CT scan, also known as a computerized tomogram or CAT scan, is a noninvasive type of X-ray that helps doctors diagnose medical conditions that may not be visible on other types of imaging technology. Using a CT scan allows radiologists from NYU Langone ’s the ability to see more than what a regular can provide. NYU Langone radiologists review and interpret CT scans to diagnose a variety of illnesses, including abdominal, cardiac, musculoskeletal, neurological, spine-related, and thoracic conditions. A CT scanner is a doughnut-shaped machine that uses advanced X-ray technology to take pictures of your body. A computer in the scanner reconstructs the data into cross-sectional pictures of your body, called slices or sections. Unlike an MRI, a CT scanner is an open machine—you are not enclosed and can see completely around yourself. NYU Langone offers patients the most advanced CT scanner technology available, providing images of exceptional quality, while using the lowest possible radiation dose to keep you safe. Learn more about Why Doctors Order a CT Scan CT scans enable doctors to see cross-sectional images of your internal organs. CT scans can potentially help your doctor see the cause of your symptoms, diagnose certain diseases, and evaluate treatment response. Critical information can be provided to your doctor, often more quickly and economically compared with other tests. Compared to MRI, CT provides a better evaluation of certain elements such as air, blood, and calcifications. This means that air-containing structures such as the lungs are better studied using CT. Preparing for a CT Scan You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for up to three hours before your CT scan, especially if a contrast material is going to be used in your exam. You should inform your doctor of any medications that you are taking and if you have any allergies. You can take your medications before the CT scan. Talk with your doctor before the CT scan for any specific instructions. Also, please inform your doctor of any recent illnesses or other medical conditions, such as a history of heart disease, asthma, diabetes, kidney disease, or thyroid problems. When you schedule your appointment, our scheduling associate tells you how early to arrive. Depending on the type of exam, it may be 30 to 60 minutes before your scheduled appointment. This allows time for registration and to complete all necessary paperwork, forms, and questionnaires. Be sure to bring your prescription, insurance card, and any related insurance forms or precertifications. If you require a precertification for the study and you do not bring it with you, you will likely be delayed until it is on file in our department. It may be helpful to confirm that the doctor referring you for the exam has secured the precertification and has faxed it to our department. You should wear comfortable, loose-fitting clothing to your exam. Certain exams may require you to wear a gown, which is provided. We have private dressing rooms with lockers for your clothes and valuables, although we suggest that you leave your valuables at home. Metal objects including jewelry, eyeglasses, dentures, and hairpins may affect the CT images and should be left at home or removed prior to your exam. You may also be asked to take out hearing aids and removable dental work. Some abdominal CT scans require the administration of water or oral contrast material to allow the radiologist to evaluate your bowel and also to separate the bowel from other important organs and tissues. If you are having a CT scan of your abdomen or pelvis, you need to arrive one hour before your appointment. You will be asked to drink some type of oral contrast agent; either dilute or very dilute barium, dilute iodine, or water. During this period of time, you can fill out your forms and other paperwork. Your physician and radiologist may determine that intravenous (IV) contrast material is needed for your CT scan. IV contrast material containing iodine is used to highlight organs and blood vessels that are otherwise difficult to visualize. If required, a small IV is placed in your arm or hand prior to the CT scan. IV contrast material is safe for most patients, but there is a small chance of a reaction in a very small percentage of patients.  Before your scan, one of our staff members asks you a few questions to assess your risk of reaction. Allergic reactions can occur following IV contrast administration. The likelihood for an allergic reaction is increased if you have a history of active uncontrolled asthma, if you’ve had a prior allergic reaction to contrast, or if you have a history of a life-threatening reaction to any allergen or medication. Please notify your referring physician prior to scheduling your CT scan appointment if you have any of these risk factors or a known allergy to contrast material. Your doctor may prescribe medications to reduce the risk of an allergic reaction. During a CT Scan Our CT technologist takes you into the CT scanner room and positions you on the table, which moves into the doughnut-shaped portion of the scanner. At this point, the CT technologist exits the room. You and the technologist are able to speak with each other through an intercom system. The technologist lets you know when the pictures are going to be taken—during this time you need to hold still, as moving causes the images to be blurry. The technologist gives you specific breathing instructions; for example, you may be asked to hold your breath or to breathe quietly. As the scanner takes the pictures, the table slides through the scanner and then back out. The exam length depends on the type of scan that has been ordered for you. Most people are on the scanning table for less than 10 minutes. A technologist communicates with you throughout the exam and lets you know if additional images need to be taken. After a CT Scan When your scan is completed, you may resume your regular diet and activities. We recommend that you drink plenty of non-alcoholic, decaffeinated fluids, such as water or juice, to help your body flush out any IV or oral contrast material. After your CT scan, our radiologists read the images and dictate a report that is sent to your doctor, who contacts you with the results. Our Locations (24) Ultra-Low Dose CT Scans Successfully Detect Fractures Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery We have doctors throughout Manhattan and on Long Island. 212-263-7505 NYU Langone’s otolaryngologists—also known as ear, nose, and throat specialists—and head and neck surgeons take a patient-centered approach to treatment. Our compassionate care is delivered by a skilled team that is devoted to providing the best care for adults and children. Pediatric otolaryngology services are provided at Research and Clinical Trials NYU Langone’s otolaryngologists and head and neck surgeons engage in research and clinical trials to enhance care for ear, nose, and throat conditions. Our doctors take a patient-centered approach to treatment. From simple evaluations to complex surgical procedures, our specialists and subspecialists tailor treatments to your individual needs. We collaborate with NYU Langone doctors in multiple specialties, from audiology and to plastic and reconstructive surgery. As leaders in otolaryngology research, we are able to take the valuable information we learn through study and clinical trials and bring it to our work with patients. This helps us realize our goal, which is to determine the best possible outcomes that lead to long-term results for our patients. We work as one team to deliver personalized care fueled by the latest research and discoveries. Ear, Nose, and Throat Conditions We Treat Your care begins with an initial evaluation by a member of our team of general otolaryngologists. We listen to your symptoms and concerns and determine the best course of treatment. Our pediatric otolaryngologists care for common conditions in children, as well as more complex conditions related to voice, breathing, sinus, and swallowing issues. Our audiologists are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of hearing loss in adults and children, and provide the latest in diagnostic testing and hearing technology. If advanced care is required, we work closely with board-certified specialists in neurology and neurosurgery to get you the care you need. We care for the full range of ear, nose, and throat ailments and complex head and neck conditions in adults and children, including the following: balance disorders, including vertigo and dizziness breathing and smell disorders, nasal deformity, nasal airway issues, and stridor in adults cleft lip, cleft palate, and other congenital conditions cosmetic facial surgery ear and hearing-related disorders, including , ear canal stenosis, ear drum perforation, chronic ear infections, , otosclerosis, and tinnitus ear anomalies, including microtia, atresia, and other malformations esophageal and swallowing disorders facial paralysis facial scars and lesions, and aging face issues and other tumors of the oral cavity, oral pharynx, larynx, and neck pediatric head and neck tumors, masses, and cysts rhinoplasty, a surgery to change the shape of the nose salivary gland disorders sinonasal cancer and sinus tumors , including anterior skull base tumors and lesions thyroid problems and tumors voice disorders, including benign vocal cord lesions We also provide the latest in surgical technology, including high-resolution, three-dimensional imaging and computer animation to plan out delicate procedures that involve tumor removal and craniofacial reconstruction. These high-tech surgical techniques allow for more precise surgery and better physical outcomes. Your care is coordinated by our specially trained nursing staff. Following treatment, we refer you to for physical therapy and speech-language pathology as needed. We collaborate with experts at NYU Langone’s if you require further treatment for head and neck cancers. Leaders in Otolaryngology Research As leaders in for conditions that affect the ear, nose, and throat, we identify and put into practice advances that enhance patient care. Our research into dizziness has led to innovations in detecting the cause of vertigo and loss of balance. We conduct clinical trials related to head and neck cancer, otology and neurotology, laryngology, pediatric otolaryngology, and plastic surgery. We are participating in trials examining the role of immunotherapy in treating squamous cell carcinoma—research that could transform treatment of head and neck cancers. We are also researching new treatments for vocal fold scarring, vocal fold lesions, Meniere’s disease, and treatments that could help people with neurofibromatosis hear again, as well as new uses for auditory brainstem implants and cochlear implants. To schedule an appointment, please browse our doctors or call Cochlear Implant Center We enable hearing restoration for more than 200 adults and children each year, and provide auditory brainstem implants for those who are not candidates for cochlear implantation. We provide treatment for neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2 and schwannomatosis. Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center Our surgeons reanimate paralyzed facial muscles in people who have lost function due to cancer surgery, trauma, or Bell’s palsy. Head and Neck Center We are leaders in high-tech surgical treatment and advanced medical therapy for head and neck tumors and thyroid tumors. Pediatric Aerodigestive Center We provide treatment and rehabilitation for children with swallowing, gastroesophageal, and breathing challenges. We provide care for tumors in the sinuses, nose, pituitary gland, or frontal brain lobes. Lateral Skull Base Surgery Program Our experts care for people with hearing loss, cranial nerve disorders, and skull base tumors. We treat conditions that affect the sound of your voice, as well as quality of breathing and swallowing. NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates—38th Street 240 East 38th Street, 14th Floor, New York, NY, 10016 646-501-7889 646-501-7887 NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates—41st Street 222 East 41st Street, 8th Floor, New York, NY, 10017 212-263-7022 212-263-3181 NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates—First Avenue 530 First Avenue, Suite 7Q, New York, NY, 10016 212-263-5565 212-263-2019 NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates—Woodbury 173 Froehlich Farm Boulevard, Woodbury, NY, 11797 516-682-8288 New Hearing Loss Program Launches for Immigrant Families Innovations in Routine & Acute ENT Care Through COVID-19 Focus on Quality Yields Milestones in ENT Safety & Outcomes NYU Lutheran Expands ENT Services with New Specialists At NYU Langone’s Center for Neuromodulation, we offer several technologically advanced treatment options for people dealing with conditions such as Parkinson’s disease, , and chronic pain. Our deep brain stimulation (DBS) program is one of the country’s most active—we perform more than 100 procedures each year. Conditions we use DBS to manage include Parkinson’s disease, essential tremor, dystonia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, , and severe . DBS has also been used as an experimental treatment for other neurological disorders such as Huntington’s disease and High Intensity Focused Ultrasound For people who have essential tremor or Parkinson’s disease with severe tremor, high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a noninvasive approach that counters abnormal brain signals associated with the condition. HIFU works by sending a focused ultrasound beam from an external transmitter into the brain to destroy the neural tissue that is causing the unwanted motor symptoms. VIDEO: Under the care of Dr. Alon Mogilner at the Center for Neuromodulation, Vincent receives high intensity focused ultrasound to successfully treat his tremors. To confirm that symptoms can be reduced without unwanted side effects, our doctors precisely map the brain area, and then apply test doses to produce a temporary lesion. Once the target is confirmed, multiple 30-second treatment doses of HIFU are given while you are inside an MRI machine. This outpatient procedure takes just a few hours to complete. Following the procedure, symptoms improve immediately, and you can return to your normal activities. NYU Langone’s Center for Neuromodulation is one of only two facilities in New York state that offer this procedure. Spinal Cord Stimulation Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is a surgical procedure used to manage chronic pain in the arms, legs, and back that may result from many conditions, including complex regional pain syndrome and . Electrodes are placed over the lining of the spinal cord, known as the dura, to deliver stimulation. SCS is performed in two separate stages: a trial procedure, followed by a permanent implant if the trial is successful. Each stage takes between one and two hours, and the vast majority of these surgeries are done as an outpatient. Stage one involves implanting trial electrodes, via small needles, which are then connected to an external battery and programmer. We ask you to try the stimulation at home for a week and assess its ability to provide pain relief. The electrodes are easily removed in the office approximately one week later. If the trial demonstrates a significant improvement in your pain, permanent implantation can take place during a short surgical procedure. The trial electrodes are removed and permanent ones are put in place and connected to a pacemaker-like device that is implanted under your skin. After the procedure, you are taught to use the device to control pain as needed. Adjustments to the strength and location of stimulation can be easily made via a handheld remote control. Peripheral Neurostimulation Peripheral neurostimulation (PNS) is a surgical procedure used to treat patients with chronic headaches or facial pain. Electrodes are placed under the skin of the scalp or area of the face where the pain is occurring and then connected to a pacemaker-like device that is also implanted beneath the skin. Electrical stimulation is applied to the affected area, which multiple studies have proven to be highly effective in decreasing the severity and frequency of headache or facial pain The outpatient PNS procedure is performed in two separate hour-long stages. The first stage uses trial electrodes, with a number of stimulation programs administered over the next few days. If this trial demonstrates a significant improvement in your headache or facial pain, permanent implantation can take place. In stage two, a permanent set of electrodes are implanted and then connected to a small pacemaker-like device that is inserted under the skin in the chest, abdomen, or back. The specific device used is tailored to each person’s needs. After implantation, we teach you how to use the device to control pain as needed. Adjustments to the strength and location of stimulation can be easily made via a handheld remote control. Intrathecal Pump Placement In patients with debilitating spasticity, such as children with cerebral palsy or adults after , as well as people with or spinal cord injury, a small catheter can be placed into the spinal fluid and connected to a medication pump under the skin. This pump delivers highly potent baclofen, a medication that helps relax muscles and stop cramping. We have doctors located throughout Manhattan. When you are diagnosed with a tumor in your sinuses, nose, pituitary gland, or the frontal lobes of your brain, we understand that you may feel overwhelmed. The idea of having surgery in this delicate area that is home to nerves related to balance, facial movement, hearing, and sight can cause many people to feel anxious or worried. Rest assured that the medical team at NYU Langone’s Anterior Skull Base Surgery Center has the experience and skill to provide you with the best treatment for your condition. Dr. Chandra Sen Dr. Richard Lebowitz , who have a combined 40 years of experience focused specifically on using anterior skull base surgery to remove tumors such as meningiomas , craniopharyngioma, juvenile angiofibromas, chordomas, and esthesioneuroblastomas. We also treat patients with non-tumorous conditions, such as cerebrospinal fluid fistulas and mucoceles. In all, we perform more than 100 such procedures each year. Otolaryngologist Dr. Richard Lebowitz analyzes scans on his computer. The Anterior Skull Base Surgery Center team includes neurosurgeons as well as otolaryngologists, also known as ear, nose, and throat specialists, who are experienced in both open craniotomy and endoscopic endonasal surgery. The craniotomy approach requires opening the skull to perform surgery, a procedure that creates visible incisions and generally requires a longer hospital stay and recovery time. Many patients qualify for a less invasive approach: endonasal endoscopy. Instead of opening the skull to access the tumor, a tiny camera attached to a long, thin, lighted tube is inserted into the nasal and sinus cavity, so it can relay images of the tumor site to a television screen. The neurosurgeon inserts small tools through the nasal cavity and removes the tumor using those images as a guide. The minimally invasive endoscopic approach means that, unlike open craniotomy surgery, there is no visible scarring, and many patients are back to work within two to six weeks. Our neurosurgeons and cancer experts treat patients with malignant and benign tumors that occur in the delicate area at the base of the brain. Learn More About Skull Base Tumors For tumors that require radiation therapy, we use Leksell Gamma Knife Icon™ radiosurgery , which allows us to deliver targeted, precise doses of radiation therapy to a brain tumor. During your first visit to the Anterior Skull Base Surgery Center, we review your symptoms, imaging studies such as CT and MRI scans, and any other pertinent test results to assess the best treatment approach for your condition. Depending on your specific problem, your surgeon then refers you for consultation with other members of your healthcare team as necessary, including otolaryngologists, endocrinologists, neuro-ophthalmologists, and neuro-oncologists. During your treatment, you are cared for by our neurosurgery nursing team that specializes in caring for patients after brain surgery. Most skull base tumors are benign, but if follow-up cancer treatment is required, we connect you with NYU Langone’s . If you need help with walking or balance after surgery, the experts at NYU Langone’s renowned can help. We accept most insurance plans. Our office staff is happy to help you work with your insurance provider to ensure that you get the care you need in a way that is financially viable for you. Our neurosurgeons and otolaryngologists work together to provide the best treatments for conditions of the anterior skull base. Hepatobiliary & Pancreatic Surgery Liver Tumor Program Liver Transplantation Pancreatic Cancer Center Pancreas Transplantation 250+ Pancreatectomies Annually As one of the nation’s highest-volume centers for pancreas surgery, we’re able to deliver superior outcomes. Pancreatic Robotic Surgeries We perform more robotic-assisted pancreatic surgeries each year than any other health system in New York State. Leaders in Liver Transplants Our one-year patient survival rate for liver transplants is the highest in New York State. NYU Langone hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgeons are renowned worldwide for their skill and expertise in caring for people with benign and cancerous conditions that affect the liver, pancreas, bile duct, and gallbladder. Our mastery of open, minimally invasive, laparoscopic, and robotic-assisted procedures, along with our relentless dedication to quality, enable us to treat all disorders of these organs, including the rarest and most highly complex, with outstanding outcomes. Excellence in Cancer Care We are part of Perlmutter Cancer Center, an NCI-Designated Comprehensive Cancer Center. We provide care for people with cancers of the bile duct , gallbladder, . Our surgical team at the has built a reputation as being among the best in the nation for pancreatic procedures. Our surgeons routinely perform the robotic Whipple operation and removal of tumors with major blood vessel involvement—often those that other hospitals consider inoperable. Highly specialized surgeons at our can perform essentially any operation necessary to treat cancer, ranging from robotic liver resections to liver transplantation. Histotripsy for Liver Cancer We are the first hospital system in New York City to offer this groundbreaking technology. Histotripsy, a noninvasive form of focused ultrasound, destroys liver tumors on a subcellular level, offering unprecedented precision. The team at NYU Langone’s specializes in treating people with , pancreatic cysts, pancreatic tumors, and pancreatic cancer. They also offer genetic testing and counseling for people who may be at increased risk of developing pancreatic cancer due to family history or other risk factors. Members of our team are part of the —where we offer exceptional care that incorporates the latest technological advancements in living donor liver , liver–kidney, , and kidney–pancreas transplants. Our high-volume liver transplant program performs 100+ transplants annually. We have the highest one-year patient survival rate in New York State, and a 100 percent one-year survival rate for people receiving a liver from a living donor. provides Hispanic and Latino children and adults with culturally conscious care. Liver transplants for children are offered by the Excellence in Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer Our program is among the few worldwide specializing in advanced vascular techniques: these allow us to remove tumors most other programs thought were inoperable. Our team is skilled in the most advanced minimally invasive and robotic surgical techniques, which we offer at all of our locations: . Our operating rooms are among the most technologically advanced in the nation, with many featuring imaging systems that reveal tumors on a microscopic scale. We are the highest-volume robotic pancreatectomy program in New York State and one of the highest-volume robotic hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery programs in the nation. We are among the only teams in the world to offer vascular reconstruction after partial or total pancreatectomy for locally advanced pancreatic cancer. This complex procedure can in many cases lead to remission of the disease. In addition, we perform all surgical procedures to treat disorders of the liver, pancreas, bile duct, and gallbladder, including the following. biliary tract surgery, including Kasai procedure, or portoenterostomy , for children with biliary atresia gallbladder surgery hepaticojejunostomy, or Roux-en-Y procedure, for bile duct injuries and tumors, palliative bypass, and choledochal cysts procedures for liver cancer and liver metastases including open, laparoscopic, and robotic-assisted liver resection and portal vein embolization procedures for pancreatic cancer , including open and robotic Whipple procedures, also called pancreaticoduodenectomy; pancreaticoduodenectomy with vascular reconstruction; distal pancreatectomy; and total pancreatectomy pancreatic enucleation for people with benign and some cancerous pancreatic tumors islet cell transplant for people with certain types of diabetes For for which surgery is recommended, we specialize in a wide range of procedures , including endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and debridement and drainage procedures such as pancreatic cyst gastronomy. We create an individualized treatment plan for every person we care for, drawing on our expertise in endoscopic and surgical treatments as well as medical therapies. In addition, we offer patient education and ongoing monitoring and support for patients and loved ones. We provide survivorship groups and palliative care to ensure long-term health monitoring and improvements to quality of life. As a National Pancreas Foundation Center of Excellence, we lead the nation in the prevention, early detection, and treatment of pancreatic cancer. Our Leading-Edge Research Our team are leaders in basic, translational, and clinical research aimed at learning more about and discovering new treatments for pancreatic cancer and other hepatobiliary and pancreatic diseases and conditions. Our Centers & Programs Our experts aim to transform the prevention, early detection, and treatment of pancreatic cancer for patients. Our experts specialize in diagnosing and treating conditions that affect the pancreas. Our team of experts provides innovative treatments for people who have liver, gallbladder, and other biliary tract tumors. Our experts provide advanced care for people with diabetes who may benefit from a pancreas transplant. We provide specialized liver transplant care and other surgical procedures for adults and children. We provide culturally conscious care to Hispanic and Latino children and adults. New Section Chief of Pancreas Surgery Named One Split Liver Transplant Saves a Toddler & a 63-Year-Old Become a Living Liver Donor Support the Living Liver Donor Program Make a monetary donation to support our living liver donor program. The number of people added to the national liver transplant waiting list grows each year. But the number of available livers from deceased donors stays about the same. As a result, people who need lifesaving liver transplant surgery to treat cirrhosis, liver failure, , and other conditions often face long wait times. , our doctors perform living donor transplants to treat many kinds of liver disease. This approach creates shorter wait times and improved health for liver recipients. Organ Donation by Living Liver Donors For a living donor transplant, donors provide part of their healthy liver—up to 70 percent—to a recipient. The livers of both the donor and recipient regrow to full size approximately three months after the surgery. There is no financial or medical benefit to donating a part of your liver, but helping another person live can be rewarding. We conduct an extensive evaluation process to minimize the risks to the donor, ensuring safety above everything else. Any healthy individual can be a donor, not just immediate family members. Nondirected donation involves donating to a stranger. Another option is paired exchange, in which living liver donor and recipient pairs collaborate to find compatible livers for each recipient. Benefits of Living Liver Donation Some patients, such as those with liver cancer or certain blood types, may benefit more from a living donor liver transplant than they would from a transplant that came from a deceased donor. In addition, when an organ is received from a deceased liver donor, surgery must occur on a rapid timeline. Living donation allows the liver recipient to prepare for surgery. The surgical date can be planned around your schedule, as well as the schedule of your medical team and the recipient. Doctors can also schedule surgery at a time when the recipient is doing well medically. The healthier the recipient is before transplant, the better the outcome usually is. The goal is to perform liver transplant early in the disease process, before other organs and systems are affected. This allows for a safer procedure, speeds the recovery process, and improves surgical outcomes. Living Liver Donor Consultation All prospective donors complete a series of medical examinations and interviews with our staff to determine whether they are appropriate candidates for living liver donation. The consultation may include the following: blood tests to check for a compatible blood type and conditions such as fatty liver disease or , which exclude candidates from donating , such as X-rays and MRI or CT scans to ensure the liver has a portion large enough to donate and has a good blood supply an evaluation from a cardiologist that includes an electrocardiogram (EKG) to check the electrical activity of the heart and an echocardiogram, an imaging test to assess the heart valves and pumping action pulmonary function tests to check lung health a meeting with a social worker or psychologist to ensure the donor understands and is prepared for the process a discussion with a transplant surgeon and hepatologist about the procedure and recovery a meeting with an independent living donor advocate, who ensures that the liver donor’s interests are represented When the living liver donor evaluation is complete, our transplant team meets with the prospective donor to discuss test results and candidacy. If the team agrees, the surgery is scheduled based around the donor’s and recipient’s schedules. What to Expect from Living Donor Surgery NYU Langone surgeons are experts at performing living liver donor surgery. This procedure consists of a partial hepatectomy—the surgical removal of a portion of the liver. During liver donor transplantation, your doctor makes an incision across the abdomen to carefully remove a part of the liver, along with the gallbladder. The donor surgery takes about six to eight hours. The transplant team will stop the procedure if they think your liver is not suitable for the recipient. After the surgery, you recover in a surgical intensive care unit (ICU) overnight and then are transferred to a regular hospital recovery room for about five days. After returning home, you continue to see your NYU Langone doctors for regular follow-up appointments to ensure you are healing well. Most people are able to go back to their daily activities six to eight weeks after the procedure. If you are interested in becoming a living liver donor, you can complete a confidential health screening for liver donations to begin the process. To learn more about liver donation or to speak with a liver donor team specialist, call and then select option 4, or email LivingLiverDonorTeam@NYULangone.org Leksell Gamma Knife Icon™ radiosurgery, available at NYU Langone’s Center for Advanced Radiosurgery, is the most established form of stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), a dedicated and minimally invasive method of treatment for brain tumors, blood vessel malformations, and other brain disorders. It requires no surgical incision in order to reach the target area. Gamma Knife is used on lesions and abnormalities in the brain. Gamma Knife radiosurgery is unlike any other form of SRS because it is used exclusively for the brain. Surgeons use MRI or other high-resolution brain imaging to create a three-dimensional picture of the targeted part of the brain. The Gamma Knife then delivers small beams of radiation that concentrate within the target. The radiation is delivered with a high degree of precision. Radiation oncologist Dr. Joshua Silverman and neurosurgeon Dr. Douglas Kondziolka review images. The Gamma Knife has no moving parts for radiation delivery, which reduces the margin for mechanical error. The Gamma Knife Icon The Gamma Knife Icon™ is the newest, most sophisticated version of SRS, both for the device and the software that powers radiation dose planning. The Icon™ system features advanced patient treatment and safety features, including a newly remastered, more flexible dose delivery system that allows physicians to administer doses to one or more targets in the brain while the patient is in the same treatment position. The team at the Center for Advanced Radiosurgery can provide noninvasive treatment to multiple brain lesions simultaneously in a single procedure. Patient Benefits: Safety and Effectiveness The Gamma Knife allows surgeons to perform brain surgery without opening the skull, and the affected tissue can be targeted with extreme precision, while sparing the surrounding healthy tissues. Because a surgical incision is not required, the risks associated with open brain surgery, including acute hemorrhage, spinal fluid leakage and infection, are reduced. Patients typically receive sedation and are able to communicate during treatment as well, thereby eliminating the risks associated with general anesthesia. As a result, patients who undergo Gamma Knife radiosurgery are less likely to experience complications that with conventional open brain surgery, and tend to report back with positive outcomes. The procedure usually does not require an overnight stay, and the majority of patients are discharged home the same morning. While patients must come in early to register at the hospital, most are finished in time for lunch, and although individual patient outcomes may vary, patients can often resume their normal activities the day after treatment. In contrast, conventional open brain surgery typically requires hospitalization for several days or longer. By avoiding this hospital stay, radiosurgery also helps reduce the cost of treatment. Are There Alternative Treatment Options? The alternatives to Gamma Knife radiosurgery include conventional brain surgery, radiation therapy, and other techniques of radiation delivery, such as proton therapy, or machines such as Cyberknife or modified linear accelerators. Gamma Knife is the most established, well-researched, and validated form of radiosurgery. To help you determine the best treatment for your tumor or condition, your neurosurgeon and radiation oncologist explain the options available to you. For instance, in the majority of cases, when intracranial radiosurgery is indicated, we believe Gamma Knife is the best choice. This belief is reflected in the general medical literature, and is also documented by our own published results. We see patients at locations in Manhattan, Westchester County, and on Long Island. At NYU Langone’s Center for Esophageal Health, our experts provide highly specialized care for people who have complex conditions of the esophagus and persistent, challenging symptoms that require advanced diagnosis and treatment. Our expertise allows us to offer leading-edge diagnostic testing, innovative therapies, and surgical options to people whose symptoms—chronic heartburn, regurgitation, belching, throat discomfort, difficulty swallowing, or non-cardiac chest pain—recur despite prior treatment. We also specialize in diagnosing and treating the underlying conditions that can cause those symptoms, including Barrett’s esophagus , hiatal or paraesophageal hernia , eosinophilic esophagitis, and or other swallowing disorders. “I had been in pain and suffering for so long, I had forgotten what it felt like to be normal. Thank you so much for making me feel better and giving me my best life back.” Rikki, Age 57 No matter which esophageal health issue brings you to us, our multidiscliplinary team—including gastroenterology motility experts, advanced endoscopists, surgeons, nurses, nutritionists, and psychologists—provides advanced, comprehensive, and integrated care that supports your overall health and wellbeing. A Personalized Approach to Care Our team understands that no two people—or their symptoms—are alike. We carefully review your medical history, perform a thorough physical exam, and use the most sophisticated diagnostic tests available to understand the relationship between your symptoms and the functioning of your gastrointestinal tract. We use all of this information to determine the cause of your symptoms, and then we partner with you to create a personalized treatment plan for your health needs. Our experts partner with you to create a personalized treatment plan for your health needs. We also coordinate with your referring doctor and, when needed, specialists in other areas, such as allergy medicine; cardiology; ear, nose, and throat medicine; physical therapy; pulmonology; sleep medicine; and speech and swallowing therapy, among others, to accurately diagnose the underlying cause of your symptoms. Specialized Diagnostic Capabilities Our experts use highly specialized diagnostic techniques and leading technology to provide an accurate diagnosis. In addition to general upper gastrointestinal diagnostic testing, such as barium esophagram and upper endoscopy, we use tests including the following: high-resolution esophageal manometry with impedance, which allows doctors to examine the esophageal sphincter, a ring of muscles that form a valve between the esophagus and stomach, as well as how the esophagus functions during swallowing 24-hour pH impedance testing, which measures the extent to which stomach contents move into the esophagus over a full day 48- to 96-hour wireless pH testing, which measures and records the level of acidity in your esophagus over multiple days functional lumen imaging probe evaluation, also known as FLIP, a minimally invasive procedure that measures the diameter and contractions of the esophagus advanced techniques to diagnose Barrett’s esophagus, including WATS 3D brush biopsy, which may detect early esophageal cancer, and confocal laser, which provides precise and detailed imaging during a biopsy endoscopic ultrasound, also known as EUS, which can provide images through the wall of the esophagus not seen with standard upper endoscopy We offer a full range of treatment options, including diet and lifestyle recommendations, complementary and integrative medical approaches, behavioral psychology treatments and counseling, physical therapies such as swallowing therapy, and the latest available prescribed medications. Our examinations and diagnostic testing may also lead us to recommend other innovative treatments and surgical options. Our doctors specialize in advanced endoscopic and minimally invasive surgical procedures including the following. Treatments for GERD laparoscopic and transoral incisionless fundoplication, in which doctors partially or completely wrap the top part of the stomach around the lower esophagus to prevent the backflow of acid minimally invasive hiatal hernia and paraesophageal hernia repair, during which the surgeon brings the portion of stomach that herniates into the chest back into the abdomen, tightens the diaphragmatic opening, and performs a partial fundoplication minimally invasive LINX® Reflux Management System magnetic sphincter augmentation, a procedure in which a magnetic ring is placed around the lower esophagus to stop the backflow of stomach contents Stretta® endoscopic radiofrequency treatment, which uses low-frequency energy to thicken the muscles of the esophagus, which then form a natural barrier to acid In most cases, you can go home the same day or within 24 hours after these procedures. Treatments for Barrett’s Esophagus cryotherapy, in which extreme cold is used to destroy damaged tissue endoscopic mucosal resection, also called EMR, a minimally invasive procedure used to remove abnormal or precancerous tissue from the lining of the esophagus endoscopic submucosal dissection, also called ESD, a procedure in which a liquid is injected under abnormal tissue to raise it and make it easier for doctors to remove radiofrequency ablation, in which high-energy radio waves are used to destroy precancerous tissue Treatments for Swallowing Disorders endoscopic Botox® therapy, a treatment in which the doctor injects Botox® into the lower esophageal sphincter to relax the muscles and make swallowing easier endoscopic dilatation, in which doctors use a balloon-like instrument or tubes to enlarge the esophagus and ease swallowing endoscopic stent placement, in which the surgeon places a hollow tube into the esophagus to make swallowing easier myotomy, in which the doctor cuts some of the muscles in the esophagus to ease swallowing; our doctors are experts in minimally invasive Heller myotomy and peroral endoscopic myotomy, also called POEM If your treatment plan involves weight loss or a procedure, we work closely with our bariatric surgeons and other experts at NYU Langone’s to provide you with care and support. Depending on your symptoms, diagnosis, and other health needs, our doctors may also recommend you participate in one of our , which provide access to investigational therapies. For people who need further evaluation or treatment for esophageal , we collaborate closely with our experts at the To make an appointment with one of our gastroenterologists, call 212-263-3095 . For an appointment with one of our surgeons, call 212-263-7302 Our team provides state-of-the-art, advanced diagnosis, treatment, and care for people who have esophageal symptoms and conditions. Surgical Director Abraham R. Khan Shreya Chablaney Esophagus Doctor Tamas A. Gonda Advanced Endoscopy Specialist Seth A. Gross Gastroenterologist Gregory B. Haber Justin R. Henning Lauren G. Khanna Rita M. Knotts Xavier Pereira Colon Cancer Screening & Prevention Program View All Locations (10) Our experts provide comprehensive, coordinated treatment and seamless care for people with even the most complex colorectal cancers. Cancers of the colon and rectum are sometimes called , or just colon cancer. At NYU Langone, we’re working to help prevent colon cancer and to detect it at its earliest stages, when it’s highly curable. Most colon cancers develop from precancerous growths called polyps. Precancerous polyps and early colon cancers often cause no symptoms. This is why colorectal cancer screening is key to early detection and prevention. Several types of screening tests are available, including colonoscopy, which is the most comprehensive method to screen for colon cancer. NYU Langone gastroenterologists like Dr. Mark Pochapin specialize in colonoscopy screening for the prevention and early detection of colon cancer. Current guidelines recommend that people who are at average risk for colon cancer begin screening at age 45. Those with certain risk factors—including a family history of advanced polyps, called adenomas, or colorectal cancer—should begin screening at an earlier age, in accordance with their health provider’s guidance. Screening Options for Colon and Rectal Cancers According to the U.S. Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer Screening, people age 45 or older should consult with their provider to choose one of the following first-line colorectal cancer screening options: FIT test At NYU Langone’s Colon Cancer Screening and Prevention Program, our gastroenterologists are highly trained and skilled in performing colonoscopies. Through this screening, they can detect and remove polyps before they turn into cancer, or detect colon cancer in its earliest stages. Our gastroenterology offices and procedure centers are conveniently located throughout New York City and Long Island. Two other screening tests, the FIT test or FIT kit, and the multitarget DNA stool test, called Cologuard, can be performed at home. A follow-up colonoscopy is only required if test results are abnormal. Learn more about colonoscopy, other screening tests, and how and when we screen for colon cancer . Your primary care provider or a gastroenterologist can help you decide which option is best for you and schedule a screening. A Modern Approach to Colon and Rectal Cancer Screenings At NYU Langone’s Colon Cancer Screening and Prevention Program, we are dedicated to studying the newest technologies—including innovations in artificial intelligence—to help make colonoscopy and other screening methods even more effective. Our experts collaborate closely with referring physicians, primary care physicians, and other specialists to ensure a comprehensive, compassionate, and patient-centered approach to care. If you receive a diagnosis of colon cancer, our experts at NYU Langone’s can partner with you to create a highly specialized, personalized plan for treatment, care, and support. Our Locations (10) NYU Langone Gastroenterology Associates 240 East 38th Street, 23rd Floor, New York, NY, 10016 212-263-3096 NYU Langone at Great Neck Medical 488 Great Neck Road, Great Neck, NY, 11021 516-482-6747 516-482-4851 NYU Langone Nassau Gastroenterology Associates 1999 Marcus Avenue, Suite 300, New Hyde Park, NY, 11042 516-466-2340 516-466-7661 NYU Langone Brooklyn Endoscopy & Ambulatory Surgery Center 1630 East 14th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11229 718-336-9100 718-336-2328 Age 45 or Older? Time to Be Screened for Colorectal Cancer. Raising Awareness for Colorectal Cancer Screenings Cohen Foundation Gift Expands Colorectal Cancer Screening Black Americans Urged to Get Regular Colon Cancer Screening Study Shows Promising Results for Cuff-Assisted Colonoscopy Dr. Mark Pochapin Explains New Colon Cancer Screening Rules Doctors Use New Tool to Remove Gastrointestinal Lesions Tips for Colorectal Cancer Screening Email: voicecenter@med.nyu.edu 646-754-1207 Care for the Performing Voice Treating Dysphagia Testing Offered At NYU Langone’s Voice Center, our team of experts are dedicated to providing evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment for a wide range of conditions that affect swallowing and the sound and quality of the voice —including sore throat, infectious and inflammatory disorders, vocal cord paralysis, and vocal cord cancer—and offer a level of expertise not available anywhere else in the region. We perform research related to voice, swallowing, and airway disorders. Learn About Our Laryngology Research Our fellowship-trained laryngologists, together with our experienced speech–language pathologists, work as a team to evaluate and treat conditions that include problems with swallowing, acid reflux, and chronic cough, as well as tremor, aging voice, injuries related to overuse of the voice, and , including cysts, polyps, and nodules. Our multidisciplinary clinic provides a comprehensive approach to your health needs. We’re transforming lives through quality care and rehabilitation in dysphagia. Researchers work together to find new treatment pathways for patients with complex laryngeal disorders. Our experts are dedicated to providing individualized care for every voice problem. We work to empower you on your journey to recovery. We believe that providing compassionate care makes a difference. Together, we make a difference in the world of voice and swallowing disorders. We specialize in caring for the performing voice . Our team works with professional singers and actors across genres, as well as singers in training, amateurs, and other performers. We also treat other professionals who rely on their voice to perform their jobs, such as teachers, lawyers, and religious leaders. NYU Langone’s Voice Center provides a comprehensive, multidisciplinary approach to treating dysphagia , which is difficulty swallowing. Our swallowing specialists evaluate many swallowing-related problems on an outpatient basis. An evaluation at the center might include clinical examination, flexible endoscopic evaluation of swallowing, or a videofluoroscopic swallow study, followed by swallowing therapy. If your condition requires surgical care , our physicians are experts in conventional and novel approaches to surgery. Community Events The Voice Center hosts community events and classes throughout the year. For more information about our upcoming programs, please call 646-754-8642 VoiceCenter@NYULangone.org Our specialists provide evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment for a wide range of conditions that affect swallowing and the sound and quality of the voice. Aaron M. Johnson Co-Director Matina Balou Speech Pathologist Natalie Chiappetta SLP Shirley Gherson Paul E. Kwak Media Inquiries If you are a member of the press who would like to arrange an interview or learn more about the Voice Center, please contact media relations. Contact Media Relations Our Neurofibromatosis Specialists After your first visit at NYU Langone’s , our experts work with you and your family to create an individualized treatment plan. You may be referred to specialists within NYU Langone, all of whom possess the same passion for the care of individuals and families affected by NF and schwannomatosis. Learn more about our team of neurofibromatosis experts. Neurology Dr. Allan E. Rubenstein Dr. Kaleb H. Yohay Dr. John Golfinos Dr. Chandra Sen Dr. David Harter Otolaryngology Dr. Sean O. McMenomey Dr. J. Thomas Roland Jr. Genetics Dr. John Pappas Dr. Sheel Sharma To make an appointment, please call 212-263-1260. CTEPH Care Our team of specialists has extensive experience diagnosing and managing chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), a rare but potentially life-threatening condition that can develop after , which is a blood clot of the arteries in the lungs. We provide expert and thorough , including medical, interventional, and surgical therapy that we personalize to each patient. The CTEPH program is led by Roxana Sulica, MD , a nationally recognized pulmonologist with decades of pulmonary hypertension experience who is director of the NYU Langone Pulmonary Hypertension Program, and Justin C. Chan, MD , who has extensive expertise in pulmonary thromboendarterectomy, a highly specialized surgery and effective treatment for the condition. Our team of doctors includes highly trained pulmonologists, cardiothoracic surgeons, interventional and heart failure cardiologists, chest radiologists, and vascular interventional radiologists, and intensive and critical care specialists. We work closely with you to diagnose and manage CTEPH with a care plan tailored to your medical needs. Physical therapists specializing in pulmonary may also be a part of your care plan. Scientific investigation is also an important part of our CTEPH Program. We collaborate with international CTEPH experts on research to advance our understanding of the condition and to improve treatment options. What Causes CTEPH? CTEPH is a rare form of pulmonary hypertension, which is elevated blood pressure in the lungs. The condition occurs when blood vessels in the lung have been blocked by a clot for a long time. The clots that trigger CTEPH often form elsewhere, most commonly in the leg, a condition known as . A clot in the leg can travel to the heart and lung and become lodged in the lung vessels. This is known as a pulmonary embolism. A clot can also form from within the lung: this is known as a thrombus. Most pulmonary clots resolve on their own or with the use of anticoagulants, also called blood thinners. However, in CTEPH, the clot does not resolve and becomes scar tissue on the inside of a lung artery. This scar tissue can make it harder for blood to flow through the lungs, and it increases the work of the right side of the heart. These are some of the symptoms people with CTEPH have: shortness of breath, especially during physical activity chest pain and discomfort swelling of the legs heart palpitations, dizzy spells, and blackouts Over time, pressure in blood vessels of the lungs can cause the right side of the heart to become weak. If left untreated, this can lead to right heart failure and, in severe cases, death. CTEPH affects up to 5 percent of people who have pulmonary embolism. About half of those with CTEPH are not aware of a prior deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. To learn more about our program and schedule an appointment, please call 212-263-1260. Our specialists have extensive experience in diagnosing and treating CTEPH. William H. Moore Chest Imaging Specialist Caroline W. Motschwiller Roxana Sulica Bedros Taslakian Thoracic Surgery Services Thoracic surgeons are an integral part of the CTEPH care team. Our cardiac surgeons, heart failure specialists, and interventional cardiologists help manage CTEPH. Physical and occupational therapy may be part of your CTEPH care plan. Complex Surgery Restores Health of Short-of-Breath Athlete Facial Paralysis & Reanimation Center 646-501-7906 Your face is one of the most identifiable things about you. When it has been altered by sudden or chronic facial paralysis, that can have a profound impact on your appearance. At NYU Langone’s Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center, we understand the challenges of and specialize in creating a personalized treatment approach that is focused on achieving the best results for you. Facial Nerve Paralysis in Adults Medication, surgery, and rehabilitation therapy are used to treat facial nerve paralysis. The Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center is led by a team of experts from multiple areas of medicine, including otolaryngology, ophthalmology , and neurology as well as rehabilitation experts from NYU Langone’s Causes of Facial Paralysis Paralysis is caused by injury to the facial nerve. The most common cause of sudden facial paralysis is Bell’s palsy. It may also be present from birth, occurring during childbirth or as a result of a genetic condition. Facial paralysis can also occur following a head injury or result from a bacterial or viral infection, including Lyme disease, infections of the middle ear, or herpes zoster oticus, also known as Ramsey-Hunt syndrome. The removal of intracranial or parotid tumors vascular malformations can also cause sudden facial paralysis. Facial paralysis usually affects one side of the face. It may cause a person to lose the ability to smile, blink, or move their face in other ways. Certain areas of the face, such as the brow, the cheek, or the lower lip, might droop. This affects both your appearance as well as your ability to speak, eat, drink, and protect the eye. Treatment for Facial Paralysis At the Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center, our experts meet regularly to discuss individual patient’s unique concerns. This collaboration among NYU Langone experts from diverse specialties results in a customized solution that is aimed at improving your appearance and restoring normal function. The treatment options for facial paralysis are broad, and our experts guide you through the treatment process. Treatments can be medical, surgical, rehabilitative, or, more commonly, all three. Electrodiagnostic testing, including electroneuronography, electromyography, and audiology, is used evaluate the chance that the paralysis will recover on its own and not require surgery. Often, medication can be used to treat facial paralysis. Interventions include botulinum toxin injection to treat uncoordinated facial muscle movements. Facial filler can even out any asymmetry within the face. If surgery is needed, our expert doctors determine the approach that is best for you. include: browlift, upper eyelid weight placement, and lower lid resuspension for the eye and brow region facial nerve decompression to reduce the harmful effects of inflammation on the nerve and jumpstart recovery intracranial or intratemporal nerve grafting and rerouting to restore function to the facial muscles local muscle transposition, contralateral muscle ligation, and platysmal ligation to treat the lower lip and neck suspension slings to elevate the corner of the mouth and restore a symmetric smile, help with nasal breathing, and improve your ability to eat and drink temporalis tendon transfer and gracilis free flap techniques to restore facial movement and function to the muscles of the face through surrounding nerves including the masseteric nerve, hypoglossal nerve, opposite facial nerve, and ansa cervicalis nerve These surgical techniques are designed to provide a permanent solution that improves facial symmetry and function. Our physicians specialize in facial and reconstructive surgery, otolaryngology, and head and neck surgery. Danielle Eytan Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgeon David R. Friedmann Adam S. Jacobson Head & Neck Surgeon Daniel Jethanamest Judy W. Lee NYU Langone plastic surgeons offer a noninvasive weight loss treatment that can trim inches of fat off the waistline, back, thighs, and arms. The treatment, called Vanquish, works best for people who have tried other weight loss and exercise programs but have not been able to trim those last few inches from trouble areas. For long lasting results, Vanquish works best when used as part of a healthy diet and exercise regimen. Most patients see results within one to three months. How Noninvasive Fat Removal Works Vanquish works by targeting the fat cells that sit between your skin and muscle. The Vanquish device delivers heat at a radiofrequency that affects only fat cells, not the surrounding tissue. The radiofrequency destroys the fat cells, which then leave the body through the urinary system. NYU Langone experts recommend four, 45-minute treatment sessions for optimal results. During the treatment, you lie on a table while the heat-emitting panels are positioned above the target area. When the procedure begins, you feel a warm sensation throughout the treatment zone. There is no physical contact with the panels, and the treatment is pain free. After the session is over, we recommend that you drink water to help your body naturally flush out the dead fat cells. For more information about the Vanquish treatment, including cost, please call At the myFace Family Support Center at NYU Langone, which is a part of our cleft and craniofacial services , we understand the psychological, emotional, and social impact that facial differences can have on a person and his or her family. Facial differences can be congenital—present at birth—and include conditions such as a cleft lip and palate. If they occur later in life, they are referred to as “acquired” and may be the result of an accident or trauma. We believe that the psychological and social wellbeing of our patients and their families is just as important as the best medical care and surgical outcomes. We offer a range of services that include psychological assessments, psycho-educational workshops, short-term and ongoing psychotherapy, innovative social programs, and referrals for neuropsychological evaluations. Psychological and academic testing is also provided. Experts at the myFace Family Support Center provide counseling to parents of children who are born with facial differences. Services may be initiated as early as the prenatal period, when a child is identified in the womb as having facial differences, and continue throughout the course of a person’s medical and surgical treatment. Patient Support We can assist with a variety of issues that people with facial differences may experience. These may include , social inhibitions, anger, and “acting out” behaviors. Throughout a patient’s treatment journey, we offer supportive counseling to patients as well as their parents, siblings, spouses, and significant others. We also provide intensive psychological support for people having surgery and assist with workplace and academic transitions. Our Support Team Our specialists have decades of combined experience working with and supporting patients who have facial differences as well as their families. Our team includes: Jessica Aceste, MS, LCSW, social work Kristen Hay, PNP, BC Margaret Lico, MS, CCC-SLP, speech pathology Deborah Malkoff-Cohen, MSRD, CDN, nutrition Our office is located at 222 East 41st Street, on the 22nd floor. For more information or to schedule an appointment, please call 212-263-5834 with expertise in hand surgery provide a variety of innovative treatments to infants, children, and adults with acquired or congenital defects of the hand and upper extremities, including the shoulder, arm, elbow, and wrist. Our hand specialists, including Dr. Sheel Sharma, collaborate to treat people with a broad range of conditions that affect the hand. A hand specialist leads each person’s care team, which may include plastic surgeons, orthopedic surgeons, physical therapists, psychiatrists, and pain management specialists. Treatment is also provided by physiatrists, which are doctors who specialize in rehabilitation medicine, and electrodiagnosticians, which are technicians who record the electrical activity in your muscles. Together, your healthcare team works to develop a treatment plan for you. All of our surgeons have received a Certificate of Added Qualification in Hand Surgery, which is now called the Subspecialty Certificate in Surgery of the Hand, from the Joint Committee on Surgery of the Hand of the American Boards of Orthopaedic Surgery, Plastic Surgery, and Surgery. Every attending surgeon on the team is also credentialed in microsurgical reconstruction—a skill vital for the complex challenges of hand surgery. Our specialists have vast experience with a broad range of conditions affecting the hand, including the following: vasospastic disease, such as Raynaud’s disease deformities caused by traumatic injuries requiring complex reconstructive surgery bone fractures tumors and carcinomas of the hand, including giant-cell tumor of the tendon sheath, keratoacanthoma, squamous cell carcinoma , epithelial cell sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, schwannoma, and neurofibroma inflammatory disease, such as scleroderma and nerve palsy related to trauma or disease osteoarthritis secondary to degenerative joint disease, , and inflammatory joint disease replant surgery to restore a severed finger or hand tenorrhaphy, swan neck deformity, or boutonniere deformity Our hand surgeons provide many treatment options for people with hand conditions. These may include carpal instability repair, reduction, and reconstruction, as well as repair or reconstruction of the peripheral nerve with autogenous nerve graft or autogenous venous nerve conduit. They can also salvage limbs using a procedure called microsurgical vascular anastomosis, perform tendon repair and reconstruction, and offer tumor removal and reconstruction. In addition, our surgeons perform finger replantation and revascularization. Our Hand Surgeons The treatment of hand defects requires a team approach. Our specialists work closely together to provide the highest quality treatment and outstanding results. Nikhil A. Agrawal, MD Jonathan L. Bass, MD David T.W. Chiu, MD Sheel Sharma, MD Vishal D. Thanik, MD To make an appointment, please call Prepare for Your Appointment The physicians at NYU Langone’s Lateral Skull Base Surgery Program are experts at managing diseases and disorders of hearing, balance, the cranial nerves, and the skull base. We work in tandem with NYU Langone’s experts in neurosurgery. Dr. John Golfinos and Dr. J. Thomas Roland perform lateral skull base surgery. Our team offers comprehensive and compassionate expertise for conditions such as acoustic neuromas or other nerve tumors; facial nerve tumors; meningiomas, a common type of brain tumor that is usually benign; neurofibromas, a genetic condition linked to tumors of special cells that nourish the nerves; cholesteatomas, or abnormal growths in the middle ear and intracranial space; and skull base inflammatory and infectious diseases. We also provide customized management of symptoms caused by the above conditions—such as hearing loss, facial nerve weakness, and vocal cord weakness—through our Facial Nerve Center . For example, our Cochlear Implant Center offers auditory brainstem implants as well as other auditory prostheses, depending on your individual needs and medical history. Our team is an important part of the Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Program , one of the largest in the country. Patients have access to advanced medical care and techniques through this program, such as new drug trials, delicate surgical removal, stereotactic radiation that precisely targets tumors, and cochlear and auditory brainstem implants. or to visit our center, you can contact us directly or check to see if you need a referral from your primary physician or general otolaryngologist. Our doctors offer individualized, patient-centered care and advanced treatment options. We also recommend surgical options to help manage your individual issue or the side effects that go along with it, as well as rehabilitative options to help speed recovery. We provide state-of-the-art diagnostic and treatment options for a variety of conditions affecting the ear, including the cranial nerves, vessels, and bones. Our board-certified neurotologic and neurosurgical specialists have extensive experience in managing tumors and other diseases that affect the nerves of hearing, balance, swallowing, facial sensation, and movement and speaking. Our team has made remarkable advances in restoring varying degrees of hearing to children and adults. We are actively involved in clinical trials with many medications for inhibiting tumor growth as well as innovative surgical and hearing restoration techniques. NYU Langone oculoplastic surgeons offer compassionate, individualized care that includes evaluations and surgery, if necessary. Our oculoplastic surgeons, including Dr. Eduardo D. Rodriguez, specialize in treating people who have conditions affecting the eye and eyelids. We specialize in a variety of conditions affecting the eye as well as the eyelids and the lacrimal, or tearing system of the eyes. These include the following: absence of or blocked tear ducts and chronic infections and inflammation of the tear ducts cosmetic eyelid surgery corneal exposure, a condition in which the eye’s cornea, or front part of the eye, becomes inflamed eyelid drooping , also known as ptosis eye tumors facial nerve disorders that produce incomplete eyelid closure loss of an eye post-traumatic injuries affecting the eye eyelid retraction due to Graves’ disease Our Oculoplastic Surgeons NYU Langone specialists have decades of experience and are highly skilled in caring for people with a wide range of conditions affecting the eye and eyelids. Stella Chung, MD 212-263-5211 As part of NYU Langone’s comprehensive transgender health services , our surgical team provides reconstructive care that centers your vision for aligning your body and anatomy to your gender identity. What to Expect Learn more about what to expect during a robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty. Please note this video is graphic. Watch the video We offer surgical procedures to meet the needs of transgender and nonbinary people, and help you prepare for surgery . Our team includes highly skilled and experienced plastic and reconstructive surgeons, urologists, otolaryngologists, and gynecologists who are leaders in gender-affirming surgery. Together, we perform more than 800 gender-affirming surgical procedures per year. Our collaborative approach ensures you receive the highest standard of surgical care. And all of our surgeries are performed at , where our patient rooms are single-bedded for your privacy. VIDEO: Sydney Walther chose a gender-affirming procedure with our transgender surgery services team. She and her parents share their experience. For people preparing for genital surgery, you are able to meet with your plastic surgeon and urologist together to answer all of your questions and develop the treatment plan best suited to your goals. We collaborate with experts in endocrinology, physical rehabilitation, psychiatry, psychology, and reproductive endocrinology and provide referrals when needed. Our mission is to care for the whole person, and each surgical plan is unique and tailored to meet your individual goals. We are recognized by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation as an LGBTQ+ Healthcare Equality Leader , which recognizes our commitment to providing high-quality, individualized care for all. Facial Surgery Our experts in craniofacial surgery perform facial gender-affirming surgery, also known as facial feminization or facial masculinization surgery. These procedures include the following: brow lift cheek augmentation chin reshaping, also known as genioplasty chondrolaryngoplasty, also known as tracheal shave, to reduce of the prominence of the Adam’s apple at the front of the throat frontal bone and brow contouring hairline advancement jaw reduction lip lift rhinoplasty to restructure the nose Chest and Torso Surgery We perform gender-affirming mastectomy, also called top surgery or chest masculinization. There are several surgical options to create a flat chest and reposition and reduce the nipple and areola area. We also perform breast augmentation, also called breast feminization, where implants are added to create larger breasts. Reproductive Procedures and Fertility Preservation Our gynecologists and urologists perform the following reproductive organ procedures: orchiectomy to remove the testicles hysterectomy to remove the uterus, which may include oophorectomy to remove ovaries if desired Our doctors provide fertility-preserving interventions, such as egg or sperm harvesting and , through Genital Surgery Genital surgery, also known as bottom surgery, is used to create the desired genital anatomy. When possible, our reconstructive plastic surgeons and urologic surgeons use the robotic da Vinci surgical system. We are one of the country’s only gender-affirming surgery programs that performs robotic surgery for these procedures. Robotic surgery provides surgeons with greater visibility and reach in the narrow cavity of the pelvis, which allows these procedures to be performed with greater safety and precision. Vaginoplasty and Related Procedures Vaginoplasty includes creation of a clitoris, labia majora, and labia minora, removal of the testicles and erectile tissue, and shortening of the urethra. A vaginal canal is created between the rectum and prostate. A robotic approach is especially helpful in the creation of the vaginal canal because it allows us to use a peritoneal flap, sometimes called peritoneal pull-through or the Davydov procedure, to achieve greater vaginal depth. As leaders in this procedure, we have published detailed information about robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty surgery. View a video that describes this procedure in detail . Please note that this video is graphic. Phalloplasty Surgery to create a penis is a multiple step process that is unique for each person and based on their desired outcome. Phalloplasty uses skin from another location on the body, such as the forearm or thigh, to make a penis. Your surgeons use microsurgery techniques to connect blood vessels and nerves that allow for blood flow to and sensation in the penis. Urethral lengthening, which creates a longer urine channel through the penis, is possible. Our surgeons perform this procedure along with vaginectomy to remove the vagina. You may also choose to have scrotoplasty to create a scrotum. Once the initial reconstruction is complete you can also choose to have erectile devices and testicular implants. Recovery After Gender-Affirming Surgery After surgery, our work with you to help soften scars, strengthen the pelvic floor following bottom surgery, and regain motion and strength after chest surgery. Our social worker also connects you with services that support you during recovery and as you move into life after gender-affirming surgery. Our Gender-Affirming Surgery Team Our gender-affirming surgery team provides care for transgender and nonbinary people. For appointments, please contact each doctor directly. Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Rachel Bluebond-Langner, MD Oriana D. Cohen MD Jamie P. Levine, MD Gynecology Christopher N. Eswar, MD Lauren E. Stewart, MD Ruth A. Tessler, MD Bobby B. Najari, MD OurHead & Neck Surgeons NYU Langone’s team of doctors is dedicated to providing the most advanced, personalized care.Browse our list of world-classhead and neck surgeons, and schedule an appointment online. otolaryngology—head & neck surgery services NYU Langone’s plastic surgery team offers laser treatments that give the skin a more youthful look, remove hair from unwanted places, and provide relief from urinary incontinence and vaginal discomfort. Laser treatments offer a range of benefits, from lessening fine lines and pores to tightening the skin. Our highly skilled, board-certified medical professionals have advanced training in the medical use of lasers. Our focus on your safety and comfort assures you’ll receive a treatment that is gentle, effective, and requires little to no recovery time. It also yields faster results than less advanced laser therapies. Skin Rejuvenation The Sciton Joule TM , a medical laser, offers a combination of light and laser therapy that allows our practitioners to customize a treatment designed to meet your needs. This treatment works by using heat to stimulate collagen production and, when appropriate, to remove the upper levels of skin cells. This process can tighten skin and reduce the signs of aging. This process also encourages the growth of new cells, which have an improved appearance and function. Our facial rejuvenation and laser skin resurfacing treatments can help with the following: tighten skin and improve the appearance of aging skin lessen fine lines and pores remove brown spots improve acne scars reduce redness in people with rosacea or spider veins treat spider veins or small blood vessels on the face and body remove unwanted hair in people of all skin tones improve the color, thickness, and texture of scars Vaginal Rejuvenation Changes in hormone levels that accompany childbirth, treatment can affect vaginal health. This can lead to painful intercourse, vaginal dryness, vaginal laxity or constriction, and vaginal atrophy, which is the thinning of the lining of the vagina. The DiVa Hybrid Fractional Laser technology, also part of the Sciton Joule , encourages the growth of new cells in the vagina. These new cells provide improved lubrication as well as tighter, more youthful tissue. DiVa is also helpful in treating and overactive bladder. The vaginal rejuvenation procedure takes less than five minutes, and your comfort is our priority. You are cared for by a female nurse practitioner, and can return to normal activities immediately and sexual intercourse within 48 hours after treatment. For more information on laser surgery services performed by our plastic surgery team, please call 212-263-3010 laserconsultation@nyulangone.org The experts at NYU Langone’s provide a comprehensive, multidisciplinary approach to treating dysphagia, which is difficulty swallowing. The severity of this condition ranges from mild to a life-limiting disability, and it may lead to dehydration, malnourishment, and pneumonia. Our doctors work closely with you and your family to determine a personalized dysphagia treatment plan. Our collaborative approach to treating dysphagia ensures you get the care that's right for you. Diagnosing Dysphagia Our goal is to find the precise cause of swallowing difficulties to improve your quality of life so you can enjoy eating again. Our team of laryngologists, pulmonologists, and gastroenterologists collaborate on a complete evaluation of the esophagus, mouth, throat, and vocal cord muscles to determine any structural or functional issues that may affect swallowing. These are some of the potential causes of dysphagia: aging autoimmune, neurological, and pulmonary disorders cysts diverticulosis gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD laryngopharyngeal reflux disease, or LPR, when stomach acid travels to the throat polyps stricture, the narrowing of an organ To confirm a diagnosis of dysphagia, we use on-site testing methods that include the following: barium swallow study and videofluoroscopic swallow study, in which an X-ray is taken of the mouth, neck, and chest to evaluate abnormalities in the swallowing mechanism or digestive tract flexible endoscopic evaluation of swallowing, which uses a fiberoptic endoscope in the throat to visualize the actual swallow in progress transnasal esophagoscopy, the insertion of an endoscope through the nose to the stomach If additional testing is needed, we collaborate with doctors at NYU Langone’s to perform the following studies: esophageal manometry, the placement of a thin catheter into the esophagus to measure movement and pressures during swallowing pH testing, to evaluate patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease and laryngopharyngeal reflux disease by monitoring acid exposure within the esophagus and voice box Following diagnosis, we consult with our voice and swallowing therapists, physiatrists, and head and neck surgeons to determine your optimal treatment plan. Our doctors spend considerable time discussing your care, which may include dietary and exercise recommendations, body repositioning while eating, prescription medications, , and rehabilitative services. For more information about dysphagia treatment, please call Voice, Swallowing & Airway Conditions We Treat The care team at NYU Langone’s treats voice, swallowing, and airway disorders. For singers and actors, we also provide specialized care for the professional voice Conditions That Affect the Voice Our physicians and therapists treat patients with a host of conditions that affect vocal quality. We employ the most effective treatment options to help you sound like yourself again, including innovative voice rehabilitation techniques that include voice training and speech therapy, and, when necessary, Vocal Nodules Vocal cord nodules are benign lesions on the vocal folds caused by extensive vocal demands or a traumatic injury. Voice therapy is the most common treatment, but some people may need surgery to remove advanced nodules. Laryngitis Laryngitis is inflammation of the larynx. Treatment depends largely on the cause of the inflammation, but may involve a combination of vocal rest, fluid intake, improved vocal hygiene, or voice therapy, as well as medicines to treat the infection. Laryngopharyngeal Reflux Laryngopharyngeal reflux, or acid reflux, refers to the backflow of stomach acid into the throat that causes a hoarse voice, chronic throat clearing, the feeling of having a lump in your throat, or trouble swallowing. The treatment of laryngopharyngeal reflux usually involves a combination of approaches, including dietary and behavioral modifications, medications to reduce stomach acid, and in some cases surgery to prevent further damage caused by reflux. Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis Recurrent respiratory papillomatosis causes wartlike lesions to grow on the vocal folds. Surgery to remove these papillomas is the traditional treatment for this condition, but medications and in-office laser treatment can also provide relief. The Voice Center is a leader in research into better understanding recurrent respiratory papillomatosis. Muscle Tension Dysphonia Muscle tension dysphonia refers to an abnormal pattern of voice use, resulting in the improper use of the muscles of the voice box and often a change to the quality of the voice. Voice therapy is the most common and effective treatment. Spasmodic Dysphonia Spasmodic or spastic dysphonia is a disorder that causes abnormal speech. The most common and reliable therapy involves the use of Botox, a medication containing a very small amount of botulinum toxin, to weaken the vocal cords and limit the abnormal contractions. Teflon Granulomas After its introduction in 1962, Teflon injections became a popular treatment for paralyzed vocal cords. Unfortunately, the injections caused Teflon granuloma formations and scarring of the vocal cords. Completely removing these granulomas is often very difficult. However, at the Voice Center, we specialize in a treatment method that allows a complete removal of Teflon granulomas as well as reconstruction of the vocal folds. Vocal Cord Granulomas Vocal granuloma is a particular type of laryngeal lesion that forms in the back portion of the voice box. People with granulomas may complain of hoarseness, chronic throat clearing, throat pain, a cough that is occasionally blood-tinged, and feel a lump in their throat. Treatment includes voice therapy, Botox injections into the vocal cord, or surgery to remove the lesion. Vocal Fold Paralysis Paralysis of one or both vocal folds, also known as vocal cords, can cause hoarseness, vocal fatigue, pain, aspiration, or tightness in the throat when speaking and breathing. Treatment of vocal cord paralysis differs depending on whether the paralysis affects one or both of the vocal folds. Vocal Cord Polyps Vocal cord polyps are benign lesions, similar to vocal cord nodules, that can cause hoarseness, constant throat clearing, coughing, and trouble swallowing. Small polyps, often caused by irritants such as tobacco smoke, may respond to alone. Other polyps, particularly those that are large or cause bleeding, often require surgery. Airway and Breathing Conditions Laryngologists at the Voice Center treat breathing problems by opening the airway to improve respiration. Subglottic and Tracheal Stenosis Narrowing of the airway can sometimes be the result of subglottic or tracheal stenosis, conditions that make it difficult to get adequate amounts of air to the lungs. Endoscopic surgical techniques can help open the airway. Your doctor might also recommend a stent, a type of surgical scaffolding, to keep the airway open, or a tracheostomy, which creates an opening through the neck directly to the windpipe. Vocal Cord Dysfunction Vocal cord dysfunction (VCD), also referred to as paradoxical vocal fold motion, occurs when the vocal cords do not open and close normally when you breathe. In certain circumstances, a sudden and severe VCD attack requires immediate emergency room treatment. Symptoms of VCD include shortness of breath, tightness in the chest, frequent coughing, loud breathing, and hoarseness. VCD may be caused by a respiratory infection, a strong response to very potent odors, acid reflux, postnasal drip, stress, exercise, or tobacco smoke, particularly secondhand smoke. Doctors at the Voice Center can perform tests to determine if the VCD is accompanied by or other conditions. We look closely at your vocal cords and may perform a spirometry exam to test how well you breathe and how your lungs are performing. VCD can be difficult to diagnose, so seeking out care during an attack can help you get the treatment you need. The treatment for VCD may include respiratory retraining therapy, stress management, and treatment of underlying conditions such as asthma. Swallowing Disorders Our multidisciplinary team of experts collaborate to determine the cause of your condition and provide treatment and rehabilitative services. Aspiration Aspiration is the abnormal entry of food or liquid into the windpipe and from there into the lungs. Aspiration may lead to pneumonia or other long-term lung complications. Treatment may include dietary changes, adjusting the position of your head when you eat, or swallowing exercises. Some patients may require therapy or surgery to improve their swallowing mechanism. If you have started experiencing , which is difficulty swallowing, we encourage you to seek immediate treatment to avoid dehydration, malnourishment, and other health concerns. Zenker’s Diverticulum Zenker’s diverticulum is an anatomic abnormality that results in a pouch forming alongside the esophagus. The pouch fills with food or liquid, which may then be regurgitated into the throat, leading to swallowing difficulties or aspiration. Treatment includes surgery to remove the pouch. For more information, please call us at Surgical Treatment for Voice Disorders In some cases, surgery is the best option for treating a voice, swallowing, or airway-related condition. At NYU Langone’s , our surgeons are experts at providing care that treats your underlying condition while also preserving your vocal quality. Laser Surgery Laser surgery is a common treatment for vocal cord cancer in its earliest stages. The laser enables microscopic precision that preserves as much normal tissue as possible, thus limiting the impact on the voice and swallowing after surgery. A one-time surgical operation can be offered as an alternative to six weeks of standard radiation therapy. Surgeons at the Voice Center, including Dr. Milan R. Amin, use advanced, minimally invasive surgical techniques to help preserve vocal quality. Phonomicrosurgery Phonomicrosurgery uses microsurgical instruments and techniques to improve vocal function. The technique is used in the following procedures to address problems with the voice, breathing, or swallowing: biopsy of throat lesions injection laryngoplasty, sometimes called vocal fold augmentation, which is the injection of a substance into one or both of the vocal cords to bring them closer together in order to produce a stronger voice laryngeal reinnervation, which creates a new nerve supply for a paralyzed vocal cord laryngectomy, the surgical removal of the voice box, which is most often used to treat advanced laryngeal cancer laryngoplasty, a procedure designed to permanently change the shape of the voice box to improve the voice microlaryngoscopy, a surgical technique that uses a microscope and specialized microinstruments to perform extremely precise excisions and other interventions on the delicate structures of the vocal cords tracheostomy, which is the insertion of a tube into the trachea, or windpipe, to enable easier breathing For more information about surgical care provided by the Voice Center, please call Our specialists are experts at diagnosing, evaluating, and managing chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), in which fibrotic scar tissue forms on the inside of a lung artery after . We are one of the only centers in the United States to offer pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. This surgical procedure, the gold standard for treatment, is highly effective at stopping its progression. Diagnosing and Evaluating CTEPH Upon referral to our program and before your first appointment, the CTEPH team reviews all your medical records and tests. Our specialists may order a variety of additional tests to diagnose and evaluate the condition. This helps us create a treatment plan and determine whether you are a candidate for pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. To do this, you may be given tests such as the following: a , or computed tomography, performed with a special protocol and reviewed by radiologists to identify scar tissue inside of the arteries in the lungs a ventilation and perfusion (V/Q) scan, a test that identifies problems between the air and blood flow in the lungs echocardiography , a noninvasive ultrasound that provides information about the structure and function of the heart and pulmonary artery pressure a right heart catheter study, in which a catheter is inserted into a vein in the neck or groin to measure the pressures in the chambers of the heart and the pulmonary artery; this is the most accurate way to confirm a CTEPH diagnosis If you are a candidate for surgery, your team may recommend more tests, such as blood tests, pulmonary or coronary angiograms, an X-ray of the arteries in the lungs or heart taken with contrast dye, ultrasounds of the veins and arteries, lung function tests, and exercise tests. Advanced Treatment Options for CTEPH CTEPH is a manageable condition, and there are treatments that can potentially stop its progression or even resolve it. Pulmonary Thromboendarterectomy Pulmonary thromboendarterectomy is a highly effective treatment for CTEPH. For this procedure, the surgeon makes an incision through the sternum, or breastbone, and then places the patient on a heart–lung bypass machine and systematically cools the body to preserve organ function. The surgeon opens the affected pulmonary artery and carefully removes the scar tissue from the inner layer of the blood vessel. Both lungs are explored, and all the major blood vessels are cleaned of scar tissue. Briefly stopping the heart–lung machine reduces bleeding and allows for the most accurate removal of scar tissue. After the procedure, patients recover in the intensive care unit for several days and for 10 to 14 days in the hospital. Your care team may recommend spending some time at the program at to build up your strength and stamina before going home. Balloon Pulmonary Angioplasty Our interventional cardiologists at may manage CTEPH with a balloon pulmonary angioplasty, which is less invasive than surgery. For this procedure, a doctor threads a catheter into a lung artery and inflates a balloon to open the blood vessel, improving blood flow. This approach may be recommended for people who are not candidates for surgery. Pulmonary Hypertension Medication Another option for managing CTEPH is to prescribe pulmonary hypertension medications to reduce the pressure inside the pulmonary arteries and to improve the function of the right side of the heart. People who cannot have surgery or an angioplasty or people who have residual pulmonary hypertension after these interventions may benefit from taking these medications. Testing Offered at the Voice Center , we provide the specialized testing required to accurately diagnose the cause of your voice, swallowing, or breathing-related condition. Testing for Voice Disorders At the Voice Center, we provide an individualized treatment plan based on the results of our advanced diagnostic testing for voice problems. Advanced voice disorder testing, performed by experts like Dr. Aaron Johnson, offers insight into many voice conditions. Stroboscopy Stroboscopy is a way to examine the vibratory nature of the vocal cords. The technique uses a strobe light that is linked to the frequency of the patient’s voice. When a person utters a tone, the light flashes at a frequency that is close to that of the person’s voice. The result is a set of images that mimic the vibration of the vocal cords. Doctors use this information to diagnose and evaluate the vocal cords for the presence of cancer, scar tissue, or stiffness, as well as muscle tone. Voice Analysis Hoarseness is often a complicated condition to evaluate because vocal changes can be very subtle. We use a series of tests to analyze your voice and help determine the cause. Typically, the evaluation involves a voice recording, which is then run through a series of computer programs that analyze the data. This analysis provides information on your vocal quality and ability and helps us determine the best way to help you get better. Testing for Swallowing Disorders Our team may use one of several methods to examine and evaluate your swallowing problem during a visit to the Voice Center. For more information about our testing options, please call Whether it’s illness, injury, or subtle changes to the speaking or singing voice, the experts at NYU Langone’s understand that no concern is too minor when it comes to ensuring the health of your voice. Voice Center experts, including Dr. Paul E. Kwak, specialize in helping singers and actors achieve and maintain vocal health. Our specialists have a unique understanding of the professional voice. Paul E. Kwak, MD , the director of the center, are otolaryngologists who specialize in medical and surgical care for the performing voice. Aaron M. Johnson, PhD , the center’s co-director, is a speech–language pathologist who provides treatment and therapies for professional vocalists. Our patients include acting and singing students, aspiring artists who spend their days auditioning, and established professionals. They are vocal athletes, and just as in sports, vocal athletes benefit from a team approach. Our experts are uniquely equipped to manage issues specific to the elite performing voice. Diagnosis and management of vocal problems is highly individual and often complex. Our doctors conduct advanced diagnostic testing to pinpoint the causes of the problem and develop a treatment plan to get you back on stage as quickly as possible. We offer baseline vocal examinations, and highly encourage singers and actors to have this done early in their careers. This information can help us identify subtle changes in vocal quality that can impact performance. We also teach healthy vocal habits, including efficient voice use, that can help preserve your voice over the long term. We are also actively involved in into how the voice works, so we can come up with new and better ways to ensure your best, lifelong vocal quality. For more information, please call Payment & Insurance Coverage for Weight Loss Surgery After you have completed all of the steps to prepare for weight loss surgery , our staff at NYU Langone’s is able to discuss payment options. If you are planning to pay for the surgery yourself, known as out-of-pocket payment, please make sure you bring the correct documentation to your first appointment. If you are planning to have your surgery covered by insurance, you need to complete the authorization process required by your insurance carrier. NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program is recognized as part of the Aetna Institutes of Quality Bariatric Surgery Network, a Cigna Bariatric Center of Excellence, a Blue Cross Blue Shield Blue Distinction Center for Bariatric Surgery, and a HIP Emblem Center of Excellence. Insurance Coverage for Weight Loss Surgery Insurance coverage for obesity surgery varies according to the insurance carrier. Those that cover bariatric, or weight loss, surgery often limit their coverage to certain types of surgery. Insurance companies that cover bariatric surgery have varying requirements. Some may require medical records documenting that you have medical problems caused by your weight or records of your participation in medically supervised weight loss programs. In fact, many insurers require at least six months’ participation in a supervised weight loss program within two years of your proposed surgery date. Our office participates with many insurance plans. But whether we participate or not, our surgical scheduler can work with you and your insurance company to obtain authorization for your surgery. Each insurance plan is unique, and getting authorization for surgery can be a long, labor-intensive process. Prior to visiting our office, please do the following steps: Call your insurance carrier and make sure your plan provides coverage for weight loss surgery, and that you have covered benefits for morbid obesity surgery. Policies can change daily. Regardless of your insurance carrier, call to check your coverage. Keep in mind that although you may have completed all the necessary steps in order to schedule surgery, your insurance plan may not authorize it. Write down the name of the person you speak with, including first name, last name, and direct phone number. Your insurance carrier may request the name of the surgery and the CPT/ICD-9 codes. Insurance companies use the following codes to identify the type of procedure or surgery: Lap Gastric Bypass: 43644 Lap Gastric Sleeve: 43775 Lap Gastric Banding: 43770 Diagnosis Code (ICD-10) for Morbid Obesity: E66.01 Your call to the insurance company should be for informational purposes only. Our office initiates the formal insurance authorization process after you meet with the surgeon and schedule your surgery date. Our surgical scheduler cannot initiate the authorization process until you have a surgery date, even if you have already attended our required information session and scheduled an appointment with the psychologist and nutritionist. If you initiate your surgery authorization process without having seen our surgeon, your insurance company may close your authorization case. When you have a surgery date, it may take another two weeks to two months to obtain approval from your insurance carrier. Insurance Appeals In almost all instances in which your insurance plan denies preauthorization for your surgery, you have a right to appeal that denial. Our program would not have submitted you for approval if we did not determine that surgery was medically necessary, so if the insurance plan denies the procedure, we think filing an appeal is justified. Appeals can be filed by you as a plan member, or you can appoint someone to assist you. If you intend to appeal, with or without assistance, you should carefully review and research what is needed to make a strong appeal. Center for Esophageal Health Leadership leadership team is dedicated to providing advanced diagnosis, treatment, and care for complex esophageal symptoms and conditions. Tanuja Damani, MD Surgical Director | General Surgery Dr. Damani has been in practice for more than 15 years and has completed more than 1,000 robotic surgeries, with a focus on the esophagus and stomach. She specializes in fundoplications and magnetic sphincter augmentation with LINX Reflux Management System—procedures to treat , hiatal and paraesophageal hernia repairs, and myotomy, a surgical procedure used to treat . Dr. Damani also has significant expertise in robotic surgery to correct prior failed surgeries for those conditions. She is a recognized expert and educator in the field and her robotic procedures are broadcast internationally to educate surgeons. Dr. Damani has published many articles and book chapters on robotic and esophageal surgery. Abraham R. Khan, MD Medical Director | Esophageal Gastroenterology Dr. Khan specializes in the advanced diagnosis and treatment of persistent symptoms or conditions that affect the esophagus, such as GERD, achalasia, and swallowing disorders. He has expertise in specialized esophageal and motility diagnostic procedures, such as high-resolution esophageal manometry and functional lumen imaging probe technology, as well as therapeutic techniques including esophageal dilation on upper endoscopy for swallowing disorders. As medical director of the Center for Esophageal Health, Dr. Khan oversees medical care at the center with the goal of partnering with each patient to provide integrated, multidisciplinary care. He is a recognized national expert in esophageal conditions. He speaks and teaches nationally, and his research is well published in major medical journals. After Weight Loss Surgery If you are contemplating weight loss surgery, you are probably thinking ahead to the results and what to expect during recovery. Weight loss surgery typically brings health benefits, but you may also experience some undesirable changes that can occur when a substantial amount of weight is lost in a short period of time, either through surgery or other means. , we want to help you prepare for and understand the effects, immediate and longer term, that you may experience after your procedure. Hair Loss During the first six months after surgery, almost everyone who has weight loss surgery experiences hair loss or thinning. Hair loss is alarming, but it typically doesn’t lead to baldness and is reversible. When your weight stabilizes and you consume more protein, your hair grows back. Chemical hair treatments, such as straighteners and perms, should be avoided. Nausea or Dumping Syndrome Because your new stomach pouch is quite small, you cannot eat as much food as you once did. Therefore, if you get full but continue to eat, or eat quickly without chewing thoroughly, pain and vomiting are likely to occur. You have to learn to eat more slowly, to chew food thoroughly, and to stop eating when you feel full. Overeating or consuming concentrated sweets or carbohydrates can lead to nausea and dumping syndrome, which occurs when the contents of the stomach quickly enter the small intestines, causing profuse sweating, nausea, dizziness, palpitations, and weakness. If you don’t have problems eating during the first month after surgery and then suddenly experience nausea or vomiting after eating or drinking, you may have developed a stricture, or narrowing, at the point where the stomach pouch connects with the small intestine. This can be serious—you should call your surgeon for further evaluation. Nutritional Deficiencies Nutritional deficiencies can occur, particularly in patients who have a gastric bypass or biliopancreatic diversion, which causes food to skip the duodenum—the section of the small intestine where most iron and calcium are absorbed. Left uncorrected, this can lead to anemia or , among other conditions. After a biliopancreatic diversion—which is designed to dramatically reduce nutrient absorption—patients have to take even greater care to avoid nutritional deficiencies. The good news is that these problems can be avoided by eating the correct foods in small amounts, taking daily vitamin and mineral supplements, and getting regular medical checkups that include blood testing. Lactose Intolerance After certain bariatric surgeries, lactase, the enzyme needed to digest milk and other dairy products, does not reach food in the usual fashion. Consequently, you may become lactose intolerant, leading to gas, cramping, and diarrhea. Try avoiding dairy products and switching to alternatives, such as soy milk, rice milk, or lactose-free milk such as Lactaid. Changed Bowel Habits Weight loss surgery can change your food intake as well as your digestion. Some patients experience constipation, which can be treated with a mild, natural stool softener or by simply drinking more fluids. After a biliopancreatic diversion or duodenal switch, patients may experience diarrhea. This is usually caused by having too much fat in the diet. If that is not the case, a small amount of pancreatic enzymes may be required to help your digestion, which can be prescribed by your surgeon. Loss of Muscle Mass Because you’re consuming far fewer calories and less protein, your body burns other energy stores to maintain itself. The body prefers to use protein-rich muscle for energy before it taps into fat. Therefore, your initial weight loss may come at the expense of your muscle mass. This is most common after a gastric bypass, sleeve gastrectomy, or a biliopancreatic diversion or duodenal switch. Fortunately, loss of muscle mass can be avoided by exercising every day and consuming more protein. We recommend both regular aerobic activity and weight lifting. These activities can be alternated, but should be done at least three times a week for 20 to 30 minutes, though daily exercise is ideal and should be your goal. Regular exercise increases fat burning, builds and tones muscle, and raises your energy level. With any rapid weight loss, there is an increased risk of developing gallstones. About 1 in 10 people who undergo bariatric surgery ultimately need to have their gallbladders removed. At NYU Langone, we do not routinely remove gallbladders at the time of weight loss surgery because most people would have their gallbladders removed unnecessarily. Instead, anyone who still has a gallbladder at the time of gastric bypass or biliopancreatic diversion or duodenal switch surgery is prescribed a medication that prevents gallstones from forming after surgery. If your gallbladder still needs to be removed, it can be done laparoscopically at a later date. Excess Skin After weight loss surgery, your body may be left with excess skin. Our doctors can refer you to an NYU Langone who can remove extra skin, as well as tighten and contour your skin to your new shape. Gastric Band Adjustments If you have gastric band surgery, band adjustments are critical to the success of your surgery. If your weight loss plateaus, or if you continue to be hungry after eating, your band needs tightening. This is a simple procedure that your surgeon or nurse can usually perform in our office. On occasion, this needs to be done in the radiology department. We can also help you if you’ve had Lap-Band surgery elsewhere and require an adjustment. Weight Loss Surgery Support Groups hosts free support groups for prospective, new, and existing patients. Support groups play an important role for those who have had bariatric surgery and other weight management procedures. At NYU Langone, these groups provide a safe and encouraging environment in which people managing their weight can share experiences, celebrate milestones, and navigate challenges together. In addition, these groups may feature guidance from healthcare professionals, ensuring members receive information on nutrition, exercise, and lifestyle changes. For more information about a support group near you, visit our location pages: We look forward to hearing from you. People who are affected by obesity and have had limited success losing weight on their own may benefit from medically supervised weight loss through the Weight Management Program at NYU Langone. Our nonsurgical medical weight loss methods focus on proper nutrition, physical activity, and making healthier lifestyle choices. We work with you and your primary care physician, exercise experts, nutritionists, psychologists, and other specialty providers as necessary. The program welcomes anyone who has a weight concern and hopes to gain a sense of control over their weight. Please contact our locations to learn about the medical weight loss services they provide. Our main locations are: Nonmedical weight loss programs include meal replacement programs and exercise guidance. Meal Replacement Programs Meal replacements can be an effective tool choosing nutritionally balanced, low-calorie foods. They offer a convenient and controlled way to manage calorie intake while ensuring nutritional needs are met. These products are designed to replace one or more meals per day and are often formulated with balanced macronutrients, vitamins, and minerals to support overall health. When used as part of a structured program, under the supervision of one of our weight management providers, meal replacements can help to achieve and maintain weight loss goals. Medical Evaluations of Weight-Related Conditions Many medical conditions can worsen as a person gains weight. Weight loss is often the best way to manage these conditions, which include metabolic diseases, such as type 2 diabetes, and movement issues, such as . We help you manage these conditions while you lose weight and optimize your overall health. Women who have polycystic ovary syndrome or a history of gestational diabetes have unique vulnerabilities related to insulin resistance. Our providers work intensively with you to develop safe, effective meal plans that can jump-start and accelerate weight loss. We have several options for those who need to lose weight prior to a medical procedure. We can even help people who have tried traditional diet plans but have been dissatisfied with the results. Review of Medications Many medications used to manage conditions such as diabetes, seizure disorders , arthritis, and contribute to weight gain. There may be alternative medications or ways to manage these conditions that allow you to take less medicine. Our clinicians work with your primary care physician to suggest helpful strategies. Medications for Weight Loss that control feelings of hunger can often help you stick with a new eating plan. Medications are a tool for weight loss and work best when used as part of a comprehensive weight management plan that includes dietary changes and exercise. Metabolic Rate Testing Metabolism analysis helps to determine your metabolic rate, which is a calculation based on body fat, muscle mass, age, gender, and fluid retention. Your metabolic rate helps to determine how many calories your body burns while at rest. This information is used by our experts to come up with a diet strategy focused on consuming fewer calories than you burn in a day. The testing, which uses a body composition analyzer, is quick, painless, and does not require a blood test or fasting. Individual Meal Planning Planning out meals in advance, awareness of the nutritional value of the foods you choose, and being accountable to your goals can be crucial for weight loss success. We teach you how to create a healthy eating plan and maintain a food diary. Mindful Eating and Nutrition Planning Mindful eating is a cornerstone of our care. We discuss your eating habits, what triggers eating, and how to distinguish “head hunger,” which is wanting to eat even though you are not truly hungry, from your body’s true metabolic needs. We also discuss ways to manage stress that do not include food. Knowing how to read food labels and menus to find the best choices, as well as understanding food composition, plays a part in mindful eating. Our registered dietitians teach you how to incorporate nutritional knowledge into your busy life while also balancing your family’s food preferences. Self-Monitoring Tools The bathroom scale, food diaries, and label reading can all help you reach your weight loss goals and maintain a healthy weight. We help you figure out which self-monitoring tools are best for you, and how often you should use them. Exercise Guidance Our providers help you set exercise goals that are aligned with your current fitness level and that can be used at your local gym, at home, or in the community. We understand how difficult it can be to add regular physical activity into your busy lifestyle, so we also provide guidance that makes physical activity more enjoyable, and therefore easier to maintain as a healthy habit. Our recommendations are based on professional guidelines such as those from the American College of Sports Medicine. To make an appointment to learn more about our nonsurgical medical weight loss options, please schedule with one of weight loss experts We offer in-person follow-up appointments, or you can also choose to have an online provider visit through the . Please check with your insurance providers about whether these online visits are covered. These video visits are not covered by insurance and must be paid out of pocket. Plastic surgeons at NYU Langone reconstruct the breast after surgery and improve the overall appearance of the breast for those seeking reconstructive or cosmetic plastic surgery. We offer all of the latest reconstruction techniques, including the following: breast reduction using the short scar method, which involves a smaller incision than traditional techniques and thus has more cosmetically appealing results breast lift surgery, or mastopexy secondary breast reconstruction and augmentation surgery, which is performed as a separate procedure after surgery to remove all or part of the breast We also perform breast reconstruction using perforator flaps. In this procedure, performed using microvascular surgical techniques, a new breast is created by using tissue removed from either the stomach or buttocks. Techniques we use include the deep inferior epigastric perforator, known as DIEP, and superior gluteal artery perforator, also known as S-GAP. Our plastic surgeons, including Dr. Eduardo D. Rodriguez and Dr. Nolan S. Karp, specialize in the latest techniques to perform breast reconstruction and cosmetic breast surgery. Our surgeons are experts in the treatment of the following conditions: breast sagging, also known as breast ptosis breast hyperplasia or macromastia, a benign condition resulting in the overgrowth of breast cells breast hypoplasia, known as underdevelopment Breast in a Day Breast in a Day is an innovative surgery for women diagnosed with breast cancer and for those who are at increased risk for cancer. It involves performing two procedures at the same time in one day—a nipple-sparing mastectomy , in which the whole skin envelope of the breast is saved, leaving the nipple and areola intact, and breast reconstruction using implants. For many women who choose a double mastectomy, breast reconstruction is often performed in multiple surgeries and can take up to a year to fully complete. Breast in a Day requires fewer surgeries, which means less time in the hospital. Many women find that immediate reconstruction performed in one step, known as direct implant reconstruction, can play a significant role in physical and emotional recovery. Breast in a Day is an option for women who are at high risk for breast cancer or have breast cancer that does not involve the nipple areola, and who choose to have a prophylactic mastectomy before any cancer develops. At NYU Langone, women who choose to have a mastectomy with implant reconstruction may be candidates for direct implants instead of temporary implants or expanders. NYU Langone seamlessly brings together the best in oncologic and reconstructive breast surgery. Our breast surgical oncologists at and our plastic surgeons maintain ongoing communication throughout the planning process, and create a customized surgical plan for each patient. We use three-dimensional imaging to assist in preoperative planning, long-term evaluation, and follow-up care after breast reduction, reconstruction, or augmentation. Our breast plastic surgery services are offered as part of our internationally renowned Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery. We offer innovative and technologically advanced techniques for all types of reconstructive and cosmetic breast surgery. Our Breast Plastic Surgeons Our team of plastic surgeons has vast expertise using the newest techniques to perform breast reconstruction and cosmetic breast surgery. These surgeons are available at . To schedule an appointment, please call Daniel J. Ceradini, MD Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD Pierre B. Saadeh, MD The following surgeons practice at Mihye Choi, MD Nolan S. Karp, MD The members of NYU Langone’s cleft and craniofacial team perform procedures that correct facial differences that can affect function and appearance. We provide surgical and orthodontic treatment for facial skeleton malformations that are a result of congenital disorders, trauma, and treatment for Our plastic surgeons, dentists, and orthodontists take a collaborative approach to care that includes shared doctor’s visits that allow you to meet with several members of your care team on the same day. For people with complex conditions that require intensive treatment, we work closely with our colleagues in psychology, speech therapy, and social work to help patients and families manage all aspects of treatment. Many of our psychological and social support services are available through the For children born with a cleft palate and who also experience velopharyngeal dysfunction (VPD), we offer specialized care and support through our Velopharyngeal Dysfunction Clinic. This holistic approach, which addresses physical, social, and emotional aspects of cleft and craniofacial treatment, is a key component of our care. Cleft and Craniofacial Surgery Our plastic surgeons have extensive experience with complex , and bring those skills to treatment for both adults and children. We focus on treatment that improves or restores function, while also aiming to achieve the best possible cosmetic result. Our craniofacial specialists, including nurse practitioner Amanda Young and Dr. David A. Staffenberg, provide compassionate care for children and adults. Treatment for adults often involves reconstruction after injury or trauma, or a surgical procedure to treat cancer or another condition that has affected the face or skull. We also correct or update surgeries for congenital anomalies that occurred in childhood, such as ear, eyelid, nose, or jaw deformities. In addition to appearance, surgery can improve breathing and hearing function. Using techniques to repair damaged nerves, we restore facial movement and provide pain relief. For people who had surgery to remove part of the skull, we work with NYU Langone neurosurgeons to perform cranioplasty to repair the skull and improve the head’s shape and appearance. Plastic surgery for children who have craniofacial conditions such as cleft lip and cleft palate is provided through Orthodontic Services Our craniofacial dental and orthodontic team focuses on surgical jaw corrections, dental implants, and orthodontic care for people with craniofacial conditions that affect the face, jaws, and teeth. Our dental laboratory features advanced equipment that allows doctors to diagnose underlying craniofacial problems and develop appropriate treatment plans, including the following: digital radiography for instant dental X-ray imaging advanced cone-beam CT scanning for a three-dimensional image of the teeth and jaw three-dimensional printers and simulators for predicting tooth movement three-dimensional intraoral scanning and CT scans that allow orthodontists to create customized devices used in preparation for surgery and during surgery We care for adults and children who have a cleft lip or cleft palate, developmental jaw growth disturbances, sleep apnea, and genetic conditions, such as Apert syndrome and Pfeiffer syndrome, that affect the shape of the head and jaw. We also treat those with an irregular or asymmetric smile or who are missing one or more teeth. We use orthodontic devices to treat jaws that are misshapen or asymmetrical, or that have been injured or altered by trauma or cancer surgery. We provide the full range of standard orthodontic treatment using fixed metal braces, clear braces, Invisalign, and orthopedic appliances such as retainers and other devices that improve teeth alignment and appearance. Our Cleft and Craniofacial Team Cleft and craniofacial disorder treatment and head and neck cancer reconstructive surgery are complex procedures that require a team approach. Our specialists work closely together to provide outstanding results and compassionate care. Plastic, Craniofacial, and Oral–Maxillofacial Surgery Dental Plastic Surgery and Orthodontics Pradip R. Shetye, DDS Preparing for Your Appointment To make an appointment at NYU Langone’s Lateral Skull Base Surgery Program, call us at . Please make sure to check whether your insurance requires a referral from your primary care or referring physician. Your first visit with us will be a comprehensive appointment. Here is what to bring to save time and facilitate your care: contact information for your referring physician(s), primary care physician, and any other doctors, including addresses and phone numbers a list of questions that you wish to ask the doctor during your visit your completed health history form a list of your medication allergies and current medications, including all over-the-counter medications; aspirin, arthritis, or pain medications; herbal remedies; and supplements copies of relevant medical records Some relevant medical records include doctors’ notes, letters, or previous surgery reports; laboratory tests such as blood work, hearing tests, and vestibular testing; imaging studies including X-rays, CT scans, and MRI scans. You can also ask any doctors you have seen outside NYU Langone to fax medical records relevant to your current problem to Risks & Benefits of Weight Loss Surgery Bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, comes with risks and benefits. We encourage you to discuss these with your family and doctors before you choose to have a weight loss procedure at NYU Langone’s Benefits of Weight Loss Surgery Weight loss surgery can improve your quality of life in many ways. The constant feelings of hunger you experience diminish, and you may become less preoccupied with food. As you lose significant amounts of weight, you have more energy, and everyday activities no longer leave you short of breath. Just a few months after surgery, you may begin to feel proud of the way you look and feel as you start to fit into smaller clothing. As your focus on food lessens, you may discover more outside interests. Feelings of self-consciousness may be gradually replaced by feelings of confidence and self-control. Bariatric surgery not only helps you lose excess weight and keep it off, it also improves or eliminates most medical problems associated with . When you begin to lose weight, you can usually cut down, or stop taking, medications for these various conditions. For instance, many people with diabetes see their blood sugar levels normalize within days of the operation. It is important to remember, though, that bariatric surgery is not a magic elixir for weight loss. It is a tool to be used along with diet and exercise to achieve a healthier life. Surgery is not a substitute for a healthy lifestyle, but it allows diet and exercise to actually work. The ultimate measures of bariatric surgery are how much weight is lost, how long the weight loss lasts, the improvement in your health and quality of life, and safety. Risks of Weight Loss Surgery Bariatric surgery does come with several risks to your health. Atelectasis Atelectasis is the partial collapse of the lungs. It is very common after surgery, especially in people who are obese, to have the bottom portion of the lungs become “squashed,” opening only with coughing and very deep breaths. This can lead to problems such as fever, pneumonia, or shortness of breath. Atelectasis can be prevented or alleviated by performing deep-breathing exercises and coughing after surgery. is a blood clot in the lungs. The problem begins in the legs, where blood clots can form in the veins of the calves or thighs, especially if the legs are stationary. Such clots can cause swelling or pain in the leg. However, they present the most danger if they break off and travel to the lungs. A large clot can cause shortness of breath or completely block blood from entering the lungs, causing death. People who are overweight have a higher risk of forming blood clots in the legs, particularly during or soon after surgery. To prevent pulmonary emboli during and after surgery, your legs are fitted with sequential compression boots. They act like blood pressure cuffs to massage your legs and prevent blood clots from forming. You are also given a small dose of blood thinner, called heparin, at the time of surgery. The best prevention, though, is to get out of bed and walk around soon after surgery. Bowel Leakage Leakage of bowel contents—from the new connection between the stomach and the small intestine or between two parts of intestine—is the most serious complication of gastric bypass and biliopancreatic diversion. A leak from a burst staple line in the sleeve gastrectomy can also occur. Such leaks can cause a high heart rate, pain in the abdomen or back, fever, infection, and even death. Treatment usually entails antibiotic therapy or surgical repair, depending on the size of the leak. In the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, a new stomach pouch is made from the top of the stomach, and the rest of the organ is detached and left alone. The stomach remnant remains alive, but it shrinks in size. In rare instances, a blockage can develop in the stomach remnant, causing a backup of fluid and leakage of bowel contents. This condition can be difficult to diagnose because it does not cause vomiting. If it occurs, you need to have an abdominal CT scan. If your stomach is found to be inflated, you are given local anesthesia, and it is deflated with a small needle. Difficulty Eating In gastric bypass surgery, the connection between the new stomach pouch and the intestine is created using a stapling technique. As with all surgical healing, a scar forms. Sometimes, this scar can tighten around the connection and cause it to narrow to a point where food cannot pass through. This problem typically occurs four to six weeks after surgery. It can be corrected by stretching the narrowed opening, which is done endoscopically. A gastroenterologist inserts a tube down your throat while you are lightly sedated to widen the opening. In people who have had a sleeve gastrectomy, the banana-shaped stomach may become too narrow due to scar tissue, leading to difficulty eating or even drinking. Stretching by endoscopy may be necessary; or in extreme cases, corrective surgery, also known as , may be required. In people who have had gastric band surgery, the opening between the upper and lower stomach pouches can also become too narrow. This can be corrected with a simple adjustment to loosen the band. In rare instances, the gastric band can slip and cause constant regurgitation and heartburn. Symptoms can be relieved by loosening the band in an office visit. The diagnosis is confirmed with a barium-swallow study. If this happens, the band would likely need to be repositioned with another operation, which is done laparoscopically. A special diet of liquids, shakes, and purees for the first month after surgery helps prevent this condition. Other Risks On rare occasions after gastric band surgery, the band erodes into the stomach. This does not cause pain, but may result in inadequate weight loss. This is diagnosed by endoscopy. The condition is repaired with surgery, which we perform laparoscopically. As with any operation, the incision site can become infected. In overweight patients with more fat in the abdominal walls, the infection can be deeper than usual. You are prescribed oral antibiotics for a minor infection. Deeper, more serious infections may require opening the wound and packing it with gauze in addition to giving antibiotics. Sometimes, weight loss surgeries do not work. You may not lose enough weight to improve your health, or you may regain weight. If this is the case, you should make an appointment to see your surgeon at NYU Langone’s . Your surgeon may suggest a procedure to revise or change your weight loss surgery that may be helpful. Due to adhesions and scar tissue from the original operation, revisional surgery is more complex than the first weight loss procedure. At NYU Langone, we have some of the most extensive experience in the country in performing revisional surgery. Our surgeons and support staff are here to help. Weight Loss Surgery Options Weight loss procedures performed at NYU Langone’s include gastric sleeve, gastric bypass, single anastomosis duodeno-ileal bypass with sleeve gastrectomy (SADI-S), one-anastomosis gastric bypass (OABG), and laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding, commonly known as Lap-Band surgery. These procedures are performed using laparoscopic or robotic surgical techniques, which involve the use of long, slender instruments that are inserted through several small abdominal incisions. Because the incisions are small, people typically recover faster compared with those who’ve had traditional surgery, which requires a larger incision. There is no one method that is best for everyone. Each type of surgery has its own advantages and disadvantages. Several factors determine which procedure is best for you, including your body mass index, any medical conditions you may have, and your eating habits. If you’re deciding whether to have bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, you must balance the risks against the rewards of losing a large amount of weight. It’s very important to discuss the risks and benefits of each type of surgery with your surgeon and your family. surgery for obesity at NYU Langone Register for a Weight Loss Surgery Seminar Before coming to NYU Langone’s for a surgery consultation, you must attend a free information session. This session helps you decide if bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, is right for you. One of our bariatric surgeons discusses each procedure option and the risks and benefits associated with surgery. At the conclusion of the seminar, you receive information about how you can join our program. Visit one of our locations to learn more about scheduling a seminar. Scheduling a Consultation After you have completed the seminar, the next step is to schedule a consultation with one of our surgeons. Find a doctor and schedule an appointment Spiritual, Religious & Chaplaincy Services for Adults At NYU Langone, we understand that spiritual and emotional wellbeing may be just as important to your health and recovery as the medical treatments you receive. Because of that, our spiritual care team is an integral part of your care. Chaplains, imams, priests, and rabbis are available around the clock to meet with you and your family. spiritual care team is trained to counsel people of all faiths. A chaplain can talk with you about your diagnosis and help you cope with the emotions that accompany illness and treatment. A chaplain also provides counseling on faith-related issues, supports you and your family during difficult conversations, and offers prayer, if desired. Request a Visit To request a visit from a chaplain, please fill out our online form or ask your nurse. You can contact our spiritual care team directly at the following locations: 212-263-5903 718-630-7505 516-663-4749 For urgent requests, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Religious, spiritual, and chaplaincy services for children and their families If you already have a connection to a local religious institution, your clergy member is welcome to visit you. Religious Services, Items & Meal Requests Prayer & Meditation Spaces Chaplain Internship Programs At NYU Langone, we understand how important it is for people to have accurate, high-quality health information about medical conditions, medications, and procedures. Our patient education librarians can provide you with reliable information to help you start conversations with doctors and loved ones about your medical concerns. Our patient education librarians answer questions from current and former NYU Langone patients, family members, and caregivers as well as potential patients. Though we can’t answer specific questions about your medical condition or symptoms, we can help you learn more about NYU Langone doctors and their areas of specialty. To ask a health-related question, please use our or call us at 646-754-5444 . We will respond to your request within four business days. Our Patient Education Librarian Sallie Willcox, MLS, is an NYU Langone patient education librarian and a health literacy specialist in the Department of Patient and Family Education. Ms. Willcox converts patient education handouts and other documents provided by our doctors, nurses, and other clinicians into plain language, applying health literacy best practices. As a librarian, she spends time managing and promoting patient education materials and resources, as well as fielding questions from staff and patients about these resources. Our Tobacco Cessation Program at NYU Langone can help you quit smoking, vaping or smoking e-cigarettes, and using other tobacco products. Cigarette smoking is a significant risk factor for numerous health conditions, most notably lung cancer, emphysema, and heart disease. Smoking has also been demonstrated to speed the progression of these and other diseases. Quitting smoking or other tobacco and nicotine-containing products can be challenging, and many smokers become frustrated by the cycle of quitting and relapsing. Experts at NYU Langone can help you break loose from this cycle and successfully quit for life. Tobacco Cessation Services for All Patients of NYU Langone Tobacco cessation assistance is available to all patients of NYU Langone. Therapies are aimed at addressing the physical and psychological dependence on nicotine and tobacco products. Our approach is tailored to your individual needs and includes a range of options. Individual counseling is available to teach you new coping skills and strategies to deal with situations and feelings that may trigger tobacco use. We can also help you choose the best smoking cessation medication for you. Most insurance plans are accepted. For more information about the customized Tobacco Cessation Program, please call 212-263-8865 Bariatric surgery can be an effective way to lose weight and improve your overall health. At NYU Langone’s , we help you decide whether surgery is the best treatment for you. We also provide information on payment and insurance coverage for bariatric surgery During our Weight Loss Surgery Seminar we explain your surgical options risks and benefits that come with each procedure, and what to expect after surgery If you need after a previous weight loss procedure, our doctors can guide you toward the right treatment. We also provide weight loss surgery for adolescents who have a body mass index of 35 or greater and are at increased risk of related health challenges. We encourage all of our patients to participate in our , where you can benefit from the experience of others who are thinking about or have completed weight loss surgery. Palliative Care & Supportive Care for Adults If you have a serious or life-limiting illness, NYU Langone’s palliative care and supportive care team can help relieve the symptoms and side effects of your condition as well as provide emotional support. Palliative care is available to people who are being cared for in the hospital as well as those receiving treatment in an outpatient setting, where it is also known as supportive care. Our care teams work in collaboration with your primary and specialty doctors to understand your physical symptoms, emotional needs, and personal goals. We thoroughly explain your treatment options and work with you and your family to develop a personalized care plan based on your values and treatment preferences. Our team specializes in , which allows you to express your values and care preferences so that they can be honored should you lose the ability to make these decisions for yourself. NYU Langone’s Palliative Care Program has received specialty certification from The Joint Commission. This designation reflects our patient- and family-centered approach to providing the best possible quality of life for people with serious illness. Our in-hospital palliative care services are available at the following locations: For services at 212-263-0900 At NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, please call NYU Langone Palliative Medicine Associates—Mineola 516-663-2052 Palliative care for children is available at . Please discuss the request with your child’s nurse. supportive oncology team at Perlmutter Cancer Center for people receiving cancer treatment, as well as services for people with chronic conditions, including heart and dementia If you or a loved one could benefit from palliative or supportive care services, please ask your doctor or nurse for a referral. If you have any additional questions about palliative or supportive care services, please contact Louise de Silva, program coordinator, at 646-501-4160 Palliative Care & Supportive Care Outpatient Services Palliative Care & Supportive Care Team Social Work & Care Management Services for Adults The social work and care management teams at NYU Langone have one goal: to make your entire hospital experience as seamless as possible. From the moment you are admitted to the hospital—and even before—our social workers, care managers, and case managers work closely with your medical team to make sure you have the social, emotional, and medical support necessary to help make the transition from NYU Langone to your home as safe and comfortable as possible. After all, home is likely where you can best recover. Learn more about our patient services at NYU Langone’s . Social workers are also available through the social work and care management services for children Social Workers and Care Managers Social workers are healthcare professionals with specialized master’s degrees who address the emotional and practical concerns of patients. We advocate on your behalf to guarantee you have access to all of the services you need and are entitled to receive. We help you and your family to understand the particulars of your care and discharge plan, make sure you have all of the resources needed to return home safely, and mediate discussions between you and your doctor regarding your care. We can also discuss any feelings of , as well as concerns about safety at home. Anyone at NYU Langone can request assistance from a social worker, and all conversations are kept confidential. Social work services are available to all NYU Langone patients through any of our inpatient locations, as well as the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, Care managers and case managers are registered nurses who serve as advocates and educators regarding the discharge planning process. We work with your doctor to determine when you are medically ready to go home and ensure that you have a safe discharge plan in place. We also serve as a liaison between the medical team and your insurance company when planning for services needed at discharge. A member of the care management team follows up with you by phone after discharge to address any questions you may have regarding your transition home. Ethics Consultation Service If a patient or his or her family members have a difference of opinion among themselves or with the physician regarding the recommended medical treatment plan, they can request an ethics consultation. This consult is provided by healthcare professionals with experience in bioethics and conflict management. An ethics consult may be helpful in the following situations: family members or the healthcare team believe a patient is incapable of making independent decisions a patient is experiencing family issues that may affect care a patient has an idea regarding treatment that conflicts with the medical plan a patient needs the treatment plan to be more thoroughly explained a patient and medical team are dealing with communication or cultural barriers that may affect care During the consult, the ethicist meets with the family and the care team to come up with a mutually agreeable plan of action. The opinion of the ethics consultant is advisory. Referrals to the ethics consult team may be made by anyone involved in a patient’s care, including staff, family, or the patient. All referrals are confidential. After a referral is made, an ethics consultant reviews the patient’s information and contacts the referral source within 24 hours or as soon as possible for urgent referrals. The ethics consultant also helps with concerns related to , including do-not-resuscitate or do-not-intubate orders and healthcare proxy issues, and works with families to determine the wishes of a patient who did not have an advance directive in place. To request an ethics consult, talk to your doctor or nurse. For urgent consultations between 5:00PM and 8:00AM on weekdays, or on weekends, ask the hospital operator to contact the social work administrator on call. Referrals may also be made from outside the hospital by calling the following numbers: For Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion, please call 212-263-5018 For NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, please call and ask the operator to connect you to the director or assistant director of care management and social work. At NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, please call 718-630-8333 . If the consultant is not available, please call the hospital operator and ask to page the ethics consultant. 516-663-2341 to connect to the social work and care management team. Supportive and Hospice Care For adults and families at NYU Langone with quality-of-life or end-of-life concerns, our social workers can provide information about supportive care , also known as palliative care, and hospice. Social workers are members of our supportive care team, which is devoted to improving the quality of life of people with serious or life-threatening illnesses. Our social workers also collaborate with our hospice program, which is contracted through the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, to determine the best plan of care for a patient at the end of life. We can also help you create an advance directive that includes important information about healthcare decisions and the designation of a proxy if you are ever unable to make your own healthcare decisions. Social Work and Care Management at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion Social workers at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion facilitate numerous patient and family support groups and arrange other services for patients and caregivers. These include the following. Left Ventricular Assist Device Support Adults who are planning to have a surgically implanted first need a psychosocial assessment, which is conducted by one of our social workers. We make sure you understand how this device works and its impact on your everyday life. Our social workers also help to put in place the support you need to handle living with an LVAD. This includes ensuring you have a care partner to assist you, getting your home equipped to house the LVAD, and confirming that you can afford the required follow-up care. Organ Transplant Support Before you receive an organ transplant, our social workers counsel you and your family to make sure you understand the transplantation process, what to expect during the recovery period, and the long-term lifestyle changes that accompany this procedure. Inpatient Psychiatric Treatment inpatient psychiatry unit at Tisch Hospital allows adults to voluntarily sign themselves in for treatment. Social workers are paired with physicians to provide highly focused, personalized, and collaborative care for people seeking psychiatric treatment. Our concern for your wellbeing continues even after you return home. We follow up with you for one month after discharge to make certain you are getting the outpatient care that you need to safely resume your regular activities. Care Transitions For adults who need extra support after they leave the hospital, our Care Transitions team helps oversee the move back home or to a skilled nursing or assisted living facility. Adults seen by the Care Transitions team include those dealing with medically and surgically complex conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , or advanced illnesses such as kidney failure or The goal of Care Transitions is to confirm that adults and their families have the knowledge and skill set needed to ensure the continued health and wellbeing of the patient after he or she is discharged from NYU Langone. We teach you how to recognize symptoms that should be reported to your doctor and give you the skills and resources necessary to be safe in your environment. We also verify that you are taking the right medications at the right dosage and educate you about how to use them properly. We teach you how to make healthy choices for your overall health. This may include information about , stress management, and exercise. We can also direct you to resources to help with issues related to addiction and depression. Our goal is to help you transition safely to your next care environment and teach you the skills you need to maintain and improve your health. To learn more about Care Transitions, ask your healthcare team for more information. To request a visit from a social worker at Tisch Hospital or Kimmel Pavilion, call or ask your nurse to contact us on your behalf. Referrals to care management are generally made by your social worker. Social Work and Care Management at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital We offer several care management and social work programs to support patients coming to NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital for surgery. Guided Patient Services Program Our guided patient services program is a roadmap for your surgical journey. A clinical care coordinator from our care management team contacts you two to four weeks before the day of your scheduled surgery. Our first goal is to assist you in preparing for the procedure. This includes identifying your support person and letting you know what to expect during the hospital stay. We also discuss the discharge plan recommended by your physician and provide information about the services that are available to you during recovery. Planning your transition home includes talking about meal preparation, accessibility, pet care, and any concerns you may have. We want to ensure that your surgery and recovery are as stress-free as possible. Postoperative Care and Discharge Plan After surgery, a social worker and care manager meet with you to confirm that the discharge plan discussed during your preadmission call is in place. If any changes are needed, they coordinate with your surgeon and other members of your medical team. For adults who are admitted urgently due to a fracture, infection, or other unexpected reason, a social worker completes a psychosocial assessment and collaborates with your healthcare team to develop an optimal discharge plan. Our care managers also communicate with insurance companies to make sure the services we request are covered. A social worker meets with you at the bedside to explain your discharge plan and ensures it is carried out as seamlessly as possible. We can provide emotional support during a time of crisis and teach you and your family coping strategies that can help when facing serious illness or injury. We can also talk to you and your caregiver about the information you need to safely transition back into your home and what to expect as you continue your recovery. Coordination of Transportation and Home Care Services The care management and social work teams can coordinate transportation from the hospital if necessary. We also make sure that you have the help that you need at home by making referrals to the appropriate home health agencies. Our care management and social work teams strive to provide you with the information you need before surgery and the support you need at home to make a complete recovery. For more information on care management and social work at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, please call the care management and social work department at 212-598-6030 Continuing Education for Social Workers The social work program at NYU Langone is recognized by the New York State Education Department’s State Board for Social Work as an approved provider of continuing education for licensed social workers (NYU Hospitals Center, Department of Social Work, provider #0346). For more information about course offerings, please call Integrative Health Services for Adults NYU Langone offers integrative health, health promotion, and wellness programs to complement your conventional healthcare. Services are offered to patients, caregivers, and anyone in the NYU Langone community through our Lerner Health Promotions Program. Integrative health practitioners can help you manage the physical and emotional side effects of your treatment, as well as provide services that help you stay well. We help as you prepare for treatment and provide care during your hospital stay and after you return home. Our services include mind–body bedside care at NYU Langone’s to help people cope with the pain, stress, and that can accompany illness and treatment. We also provide guided imagery, massage, energy therapies, yoga, and acupuncture treatment through our . Our staff of licensed professionals works with thousands of people per year through our program . We also partner with The Monday Campaigns to share healthy behavior reminders with patients and staff on topics such as eating less meat, exercising more, and limiting stress. To learn more about our integrative health programs, you can contact us at the following locations: At Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion, please call , email , or ask your healthcare provider to make a referral. 718-630-6486 Ihbk@NYULangone.org , or ask your healthcare provider for a bedside referral for help with pain management. We thank Sid and Helaine Lerner, who since 1996 have provided generous support for our integrative health and health promotion services. Additional Integrative Health Services Learn more about our integrative health services at NYU Langone’s , as well as services for children at Lerner Holistic Integrative Health Nursing Fellowship The Lerner Holistic Integrative Health Nursing Fellowship offers a unique, immersive experience that aims to train a cohort of nurses to develop a foundational understanding of holistic nursing, integrative health, and the mind–body connection. Through this program, fellows practice self-care, build resiliency skills, and apply evidence-informed holistic techniques to their personal and professional nursing practices. Lerner fellows research, develop, and implement an evidence-based holistic, integrative health project that will impact the wellbeing of patients, staff, or caregivers within their organization, priming nurses as a leaders of whole health in their institution. Learn more about the As a part of our trifold mission to care, teach, and discover, NYU Langone is devoted to excellence in medical education. made history in 2018 as the first top-ranked MD program to provide full-tuition scholarships to all students in good standing. This initiative set a new standard in medical education, making it more accessible to the brightest minds. That same year, NYU Langone launched NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the nation’s first tuition-free, three-year medical school dedicated to primary care. In 2023, the school was renamed to honor NYU Langone Health CEO Robert I. Grossman, MD. It also received a landmark $200 million gift from Kenneth and Elaine Langone, ensuring that aspiring physicians there can continue to pursue their education tuition-free. NYU Grossman School of Medicine Cost of Attendance NYU School of Medicine Offers Full-Tuition Scholarships to All New & Current Medical Students NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Financial Aid Five Things to Know About Long Island’s Only Tuition-Free Medical School During a , every second counts. Stroke doesn’t wait for anyone. Stroke is a “brain attack” that occurs when a blood clot travels to the brain or a brain blood vessel bursts, blocking blood flow. For every minute the brain is deprived of oxygen-rich blood, 2 million brain cells die, and cannot grow back. But the sooner you get lifesaving treatment to restore brain blood flow, the better the outcome for patients. Experts at NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Stroke Cente r are available 24/7 to provide the most advanced and expedited stroke care. Faster stroke treatment saves lives, reduces the risk of debilitating disability, and increases the chances for a full recovery. We’re proud to say we treat stroke patients 10 minutes faster and have successfully restored blood flow in more patients than any other hospital in New York. Our team is always on deck to provide the fastest and most advanced lifesaving stroke treatment possible. Neurology Services Stroke Treatment Services Act FAST Prevent Stroke You can’t see or feel them, but germs can be anywhere. That’s why we clean, then clean again, to prevent hospital-acquired infection, which is an infection patients can get while being treated at a healthcare facility for another condition. At NYU Langone, our protocols, including our infection prevention and control team’s cleaning regimen and strict infection-control guidelines, ensure we have the lowest infection rate among academic medical centers in the country. Driven by the latest technology, we’re also developing and applying new tools, such as our Molecular Outbreak Program . Using genome sequencing, we identify and track infectious disease-causing pathogens to prevent them from spreading. The program provides real-time data that can generate early warning signs of potential healthcare-associated infections. It’s just one way we use focused infection prevention measures to keep our patients safe during their hospital stay. Source: CMS Hospital Acquired Complications Reduction Program, lowest complication rate among comparable tertiary hospitals across the United States. Safety Initiatives Recognition for Patient Quality and Safety PrEP Program for HIV Prevention visits or in-person doctor’s appointments. Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), a daily medication that protects against HIV infection , is available through NYU Langone’s and at locations. To start PrEP treatment, you can schedule a video visit through our Virtual Urgent Care service at any time, day or night. If you prefer an in-person visit, you can schedule an appointment with one of our providers. PrEP is recommended for people who do not have HIV but are at high risk of contracting the infection, including those who have sex with people who have HIV, inject drugs for recreational use, or have been diagnosed with a sexually transmitted infection within the last six months. To be most effective, PrEP must be taken every day. Our providers are available around-the-clock to initiate your pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) treatment. Make a Virtual Urgent Care Appointment NYU Langone providers can help you determine whether PrEP is right for you. During your initial appointment, either virtual or in person, we talk with you about your overall HIV risk, explain how PrEP works, and answer any questions you have. Your doctor then orders laboratory tests, including an HIV test, which you must complete before treatment can begin. Once your doctor receives the test results and you are medically cleared to begin treatment, a prescription for PrEP is sent directly to your pharmacy. After you start treatment, our patient navigator contacts you to answer any questions, provide referrals to additional health services as requested, and schedule additional appointments. You receive follow-up care every three months, which includes routine HIV testing. PrEP is available to anyone regardless of immigration status, insurance access, or ability to pay. A Virtual Urgent Care video visit can be scheduled at a time that is most convenient for you. An in-person appointment is available by calling 718-431-2667 or by scheduling directly with one of our providers. Our internal medicine experts provide treatment that can help prevent HIV infection. Sandeep Bhat Claire Kiefer Diana S. Lee Stephnie F. Miller NP, DNP Atif Muhammad Katherine Mullins Our Affiliated Programs and Locations Our doctors are available anytime for Virtual Urgent Care video visits. We provide primary and specialized medical care, as well as dental, behavioral health, and support services, at locations across New York City. Learn More about the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone CDC Grant Extends Successful HIV Prevention Program What’s worse than having to be in the hospital? Having to go back again and again. That’s why we’re working hard to achieve the lowest readmission rates in New York. A hospital’s readmission rate is when patients go home from the hospital but wind up returning for the same or related care within 30, 60, or 90 days. It is one measure of the quality of hospital care At NYU Langone, we’re using cutting-edge technologies like artificial intelligence and other tools to help guide our efforts to reduce readmissions. And it’s working. We’re doing all we can to make sure our patients receive the best care during and after their hospital stay, so they can go home and stay there. Source: Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Unplanned hospital visits, October 2024, lowest among academic medical centers in New York state. Our AI Readmission Rate Program The recreation and creative arts therapists at NYU Langone provide therapies during the hospital stay that allow you to participate in activities that interest you, while creating an environment that addresses your physical, emotional, cognitive, and social needs. Many patients leave with tools that can be applied to their everyday lives. We assist adults during inpatient cardiac and physical rehabilitation, as well as those who have , are recovering from a , have an injury that requires an adaptation such as amputation , or are dealing with cognitive impairment due to or brain injury. Services are available to inpatients at , and in our epilepsy, psychiatric, and medical intensive care units at Our services are diverse and tailored to your needs. For example, people who have had a stroke may benefit from activities that help them understand place and time. We help people with physical impairments adjust to using an assistive device such as a wheelchair. People being treated for may benefit from learning new leisure skills such as music or art, which teach positive coping methods. Recreation, music, and art can be a key part of your healing process. Our recreation and creative arts therapists work to help ease your stress and share new ways to improve your emotional wellbeing. Referrals for Recreation and Creative Arts Therapies Therapy sessions are designed for individuals and groups based on your needs. To access our services, ask your doctor for a referral or call the following numbers: 212-263-6190 At NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital and Rusk Rehabilitation, please call 212-598-6440 Therapeutic Recreation for Adults Our certified therapeutic recreation specialists use a wide range of techniques and activities to meet your physical, cognitive, emotional, social, and leisure needs. We work with you and your family members to improve your health condition by helping you learn the skills and behaviors necessary for daily life and community involvement. Patients participate in activities that foster independence. We also teach new or adaptive skills that may be better suited to your current health needs. In addition, Rusk Rehabilitation therapists help you transition back into the community by sharing information about available resources and helping you practice navigating common recreation sites such as restaurants and movie theaters. Music Therapy for Adults Our board-certified music therapists assess your emotional wellbeing, physical health, social functioning, communication abilities, and cognitive skills through music-based responses and interventions. We use music improvisation, active music listening, songwriting, lyric discussion, music and imagery, music meditation, music performance, and learning through music. Music therapy can help reduce stress and anxiety, develop interpersonal skills, and provide a healthy emotional outlet. It can be beneficial for anyone, regardless of prior music experience. Art Therapy for Adults Art therapists use the creative process of making art to improve and enhance physical, mental, and emotional wellbeing. Artistic self-expression has been shown to help people resolve conflicts and problem solve, develop interpersonal skills, manage behavior, reduce stress, increase self-esteem and self-awareness, and achieve insight into their current situation. Our board-certified art therapists offer opportunities for patients to use a range of art materials. Art therapy is about the process, not the product; therefore, no degree of artistic skill is needed to participate. Internship Program NYU Langone also offers internships to students in clinical degree programs in therapeutic recreation, music therapy, art therapy, and child life. NYU Langone Health is a national leader in quality and innovation, tracking more than 800 metrics to assess the ongoing performance of our healthcare providers and programs. The evaluation of these measures, which include infection rates, surgical outcomes, and patient satisfaction scores, is among the most extensive in the nation and provides us with the data needed to improve patient care and achieve the best outcomes. As a result, NYU Langone consistently earns top rankings in quality and safety across our expansive network of inpatient and outpatient locations. What Does Quality Really Mean? At NYU Langone, our mortality rates are among the lowest in the nation, which is an important measure of quality care. Take our patients who’ve experienced a heart attack, for example. NYU Langone’s 30-day mortality rate for these patients across all hospitals in the system is an impressive 7.7 percent, significantly lower than the national benchmark of 13.7 percent. We have the lowest heart attack death rate in the country. This outstanding outcome is a direct result of the advanced, team-based care NYU Langone provides. We continue to expand and enhance our clinical programs, particularly in interventional cardiology, advanced heart failure, and critical care. Whether our patients need a plan to prevent heart disease , a procedure to open a blocked artery or repair a valve, or even a new heart, our specialists work together to provide the best cardiac care possible. Source: 2024 Vizient Quality and Accountability Ranking. Ranked #1 out of 115 participating comprehensive academic medical centers, with lowest O:E mortality rate. About NYU Langone Heart Our Heart Attack Specialists Our Heart Disease Prevention Program Our Approach to Treating Heart Attack How We Help More Patients Beat Heart Attack Our Quality Rankings for Mortality and More Transgender Health To request an appointment, please call one of our doctors. Leader in Healthcare Equality The Human Rights Campaign Foundation has recognized NYU Langone for excellence in patient-centered LGBTQ+ care. Surgical Expertise Our multidisciplinary surgical team performs more than 800 gender-affirming surgeries per year. High-Quality Patient Care NYU Langone has been recognized by Vizient, Inc., and The Joint Commission as a leader in overall patient safety and quality care. At NYU Langone, we provide transgender and nonbinary adults and adolescents with compassionate care that addresses each individual’s specific needs. Our diverse team includes doctors, nurses, and social workers who follow the provided by the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH). Comprehensive Gender-Affirming Care Our team provides surgical care, fertility preservation, hormone therapy, and rehabilitation care. Our surgery team performs more than 800 surgeries a year and includes plastic and reconstructive surgeons, urologists, and gynecologists. We perform a range of gender-affirming procedures , including the following: facial gender-affirming surgery, including facial feminization surgery and facial masculinization surgery surgery to remove breasts, known as top surgery or mastectomy surgery to add breasts, known as breast augmentation vaginoplasty to create a vagina phalloplasty and metoidioplasty to create a penis hysterectomy to remove the uterus and oophorectomy to remove the ovaries orchiectomy to remove testicles fertility preservation, including egg freezing or sperm freezing We are at the forefront of innovation and research in transgender surgery, conducting studies to improve patient outcomes and satisfaction. Hormone Therapy Our endocrinologists provide tailored gender-affirming hormone therapy. Testosterone, estrogen, and medications to block hormone production are used to meet the transition goals of the individual patient. Hormones are not a part of every transition, but for those who desire them, we offer a variety of methods including pills, injections, and long-acting implants. Rehabilitation Care have worked with hundreds of people during their recovery from gender-affirming surgery, using techniques which can help with scar management and mobility after surgery. This includes specialized pelvic floor physical therapy following vaginoplasty. We also help with scar management and mobility after mastectomy, chest masculinization, and phalloplasty. Transgender Health Support Services We provide support that is focused on improving your overall experience accessing care as a transgender or nonbinary person. Our nurse navigator can connect you to healthcare providers who are sensitive and affirming. Our social worker helps you prepare for gender-affirming surgery, making sure you have support during recovery and access to services that support you after surgery. We offer surgery education classes led by staff who are directly involved in your care, including during the hospital stay, surgical procedures, and recovery. During this class, you have the opportunity to hear from people who have been through surgery share their experiences of recovery and life after surgery. For 10 consecutive years, NYU Langone has been designated an LGBTQ+ Healthcare Equality Leader by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. Learn About Our Healthcare Equality Index Score provides helpful input and guidance on our transgender health services. They are supported by transgender and nonbinary professional staff . We also participate in the national and international community of surgeon–scientists, participating in research collaboratives such as TransArc and devising care guidelines and training standards. Transgender Care for Adolescents For adolescents, we provide medical care, hormone therapy, and mental health services , including pubertal suppression and psychological counseling for the entire family. Our team includes plastic surgeons, urologists, gynecologists, reproductive endocrinologists, and experts in adolescent medicine, child psychiatry, endocrinology, and gender and health education. Please contact each doctor directly for an appointment. Rachel Bluebond-Langner Oriana D. Cohen Michele B. Glodowski Jason A. Klein Bobby B. Najari Eduardo D. Rodriguez MD, DDS Lee C. Zhao Genitourinary Reconstructive Surgeon Related Programs and Services Transgender Surgery Services Our plastic surgeons, urologists, and gynecologists provide gender-affirming surgical care. Learn More About Our Transgender Surgery Services We provide medical care and mental health services for adolescents who are transgender and their families. Learn More About the Transgender Youth Health Program Our physical therapists help people prepare for and recover from gender-affirming surgery. Our Guest Services team provides information on local hotels, directions, or services available at NYU Langone. Learn More About Guest Services We provide members of the LGBTQ+ community with healthcare that is respectful of their individual needs. Learn More About LGBTQ+ Services Crain’s Honors NYU Langone Nurses as Notable LGBTQ+ Leaders Center for Diabetes & Metabolic Health We have doctors located throughout New York City. Care for Adults with Type 1 Diabetes Care for Adults with Type 2 Diabetes At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, our team is dedicated to helping people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes manage their condition and avoid complications that can affect their health. Our collaborative approach to diabetes care is what sets us apart. Your care team is led by an endocrinologist who works closely with diabetes educators, nutritionists, nurses, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants to develop a treatment plan focused on getting your diabetes under control. Our team then provides the education and support you need to achieve that goal. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for diabetes and endocrinology. Learn more about our approach to care for adults with type 1 diabetes , including information on physicians who treat these conditions. Preventing and Managing Complications Our goal is twofold: to prevent diabetes complications from occurring, and expertly treat those complications if they occur. Since uncontrolled cholesterol dramatically increase the risk of advanced diabetes complications, we focus on controlling these factors along with lowering blood glucose levels. Effective treatment prevents complications and reduces your risk of heart attack, , kidney and , vision loss, and amputation. Leaders in Diabetes Research As a patient at the Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, you have access to of medications and technologies that often are not widely available to the general public. Experts in our Diabetes Research Program focus on the link between diabetes and complications triggered by high blood glucose, , and cholesterol disorders. Our endocrinologists and cardiologists specialize in helping patients manage diabetes and reduce their risk of developing complications of the disease. Sandra T. Foo Lauren H. Golden Diabetes Specialist Alina Gouller Akankasha Goyal Stephen B. Richardson Susan Zweig Loren Wissner Greene Sanjiv V. Kinkhabwala Olga Leonardi Stuart Weiss Explore medical and surgical weight loss strategies. We help people with diabetes reduce their risk of heart disease. Pediatric Diabetes Center We give children and families the support and care they need to manage diabetes. We specialize in the treatment diabetic complications such as foot ulcers, loss of sensation, nerve pain, poor healing, and infection. COVID-19 Brings Telemedicine to the Fore in Diabetes Care Endocrinology Joins the COVID Army on the Front Lines New Approach Enhances Patient Success in Managing Diabetes Expert to Lead Center for Diabetes & Metabolic Health Changing Paradigms for Thyroid Cancer Patient Relations At NYU Langone, our Patient Relations staff can help answer your questions about hospital policies and your rights as a patient. We can also address your safety concerns or grievances and advocate on your behalf to ensure that those matters are addressed by the appropriate department. In addition, several members of our staff are notaries public and can assist you with executing official documents and documents, including a healthcare proxy or living will. , our Patient Relations staff is available 7 days a week from 9:00AM to 5:00PM to help people being treated on an inpatient or outpatient basis. You can reach us by calling 212-263-6906 . From inside the hospital, dial 3-6906 or page the hospital operator. Our offices are located on the first floor of Tisch Hospital in room SK 109H, which is along the blue pathway. , our Patient Relations staff is available Monday through Friday from 9:00AM to 5:00PM. You can reach us by calling . After 5:00PM, or on weekends and holidays, please contact the nursing supervisor at 212-598-6668 . The Patient Relations office at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital is on floor C3. Patients and families are visited in their hospital room when they request assistance. 718-630-7314 . From inside the hospital, dial 7314 or page the hospital operator. After 5:00PM, or on weekends and holidays, please contact the nursing supervisor at 718-630-7550 . Our offices are located in LB 2012, which is in the hospital lobby across from the security desk. , our Patient Relations staff is available Monday through Friday from 8:00AM to 5:00PM. You can reach us by calling 516-663-2058 . From inside the hospital, dial 663-2058 or page the hospital operator. After 5:00PM, or on weekends and holidays, please contact our nursing administrators at 516-663-2361 . Our offices are located in the main hospital lobby. , our Patient Relations staff is available Monday through Friday from 8:30AM to 5:00PM. You can reach us by calling 347-377-3544 . Our office is located in Brooklyn at 5800 Third Avenue on the second floor. Unresolved Concerns If your issue remains unresolved after contacting Patient Relations, you may contact The Joint Commission by calling 800-994-6610 or visiting The Joint Commission website You may also contact the New York State Department of Health at 800-804-5447 , via email at hospinfo@health.state.ny.us , or visit the New York State Department of Health website HIPAA Privacy Concerns Patients or family members who are concerned that their Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) privacy rights may have been violated should immediately contact our HIPAA Helpline Patient Rights These documents can help you learn more about your rights as a patient at NYU Langone. The NYU Langone Patients’ Bill of Rights is available in the following languages: NYU Langone Parent’s Bill of Rights The NYU Langone Parent’s Bill of Rights is available in the following languages: New York State Patients’ Bill of Rights The New York State Patients’ Bill of Rights is available in the following languages: Yiddish New York State Breastfeeding Mothers’ Bill of Rights The New York State Breastfeeding Mothers’ Bill of Rights is available in the following languages: Haitian Creole Your Rights as a Hospital Patient in New York State The guide, “Your Rights as a Hospital Patient in New York State” is available in the following languages: Deciding About Healthcare: A Guide for Patients and Families The New York State Department of Health’s “Deciding About Healthcare: A Guide for Patients and Families” is available in We have multiple locations across New York City and in Westchester County, Long Island, New Jersey, and Florida. View All Locations (39) 34,000+ Surgeries Each Year As one of the highest volume centers in the U.S., we’re in a unique position to improve patient outcomes. Safer Pain Management Our orthopedic surgeons are leading efforts to help manage your pain safely and effectively with fewer opioids. NYU Langone has one of the largest orthopedic surgery programs in the country. Our team cares for tens of thousands of people each year, from infants to seniors, performing procedures for the simplest to the most complex conditions involving joints, muscles, and bones. Our physicians understand the patient’s journey, having lived it themselves. Dr. Campbell, a former athlete, advocates for a holistic approach to women’s health and ensuring personalized care. Dr. Grossman, once a luminary on the baseball field, now dedicates his expertise to creating youth programs aimed at preventing sports-related injuries before they occur. Coming from a profound understanding that back pain can severely disrupt lives, Dr. Fischer uses this as a catalyst for pioneering advancements in minimally invasive spine surgery. Dr. Hacquebord, a trailblazer in the realm of advanced prosthetics and precise treatments for severe hand and wrist injuries, draws inspiration from his own athletic journey. Fueled by his personal journey, Dr. Hepinstall specializes in minimally invasive hip and knee surgeries that push the boundaries of orthopedic care. A Brooklynite, Dr. Jegede is humbled to provide the most advanced spine treatments where he grew up. His practice is dedicated to helping patients restore mobility faster. Drawing from her own experiences as both an athlete and a parent, Dr. Karamitopoulos works to provide comprehensive care for children with all orthopedic and neuromuscular conditions. Dr. Walls’ expertise as a foot and ankle surgeon is rooted in his background as a professional Irish dancer, speaking the language of dance with his patients. Dr. Gonzalez-Lomas leverages his background as a hockey player to spearhead advancements in sports medicine therapies for faster recovery to get back to your life quicker. Our world-renowned orthopedic expertise is built on first-hand experience. Our surgeons’ exceptional care is informed by their experience as athletes and proud New Yorkers. They harness their experience as marathon runners, dancers, and gym goers to pioneer groundbreaking techniques and build deep connections with their patients. Our team of surgeons specializes in all areas of orthopedic care, including adult reconstructive surgery, sports medicine, spine surgery, shoulder and elbow surgery, foot and ankle surgery, hand surgery, trauma and fracture surgery, musculoskeletal oncology, and pediatric orthopedic surgery. Our orthopedic surgeons are trained to provide the most advanced care for people with complex injuries. We emphasize compassion and comfort for every patient we treat and customize our treatments to meet your unique needs. Our services are available at different sites throughout the New York City area, Long Island, the surrounding suburbs, and Florida, making our care at as easy to access as possible. Our experts also offer orthopedic second opinions through our Orthopedic Second Opinion service . Our orthopedic surgeons review your medical records and provide a personalized second opinion report to you and your treating physician. A second opinion can confirm your diagnosis and treatment plan, or provide different recommendations that you can review and discuss with your doctor. For Specific Groups Occupational & Industrial Orthopedic Center For Specific Injuries Hip Center Joint Replacement Center Surgical Locations Find out about our research efforts and medical training in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. Our Locations (39) NYU Langone Ambulatory Care—23rd Street 324 East 23rd Street, New York, NY, 10010 212-598-6321 212-598-6186 NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery Associates—Upper East Side 862 Park Avenue, New York, NY, 10075 212-427-5553 212-879-2194 NYU Langone Podiatry Associates—Upper West Side 101 West 79th Street, New York, NY, 10024 212-874-3578 646-754-7900 646-754-7950 NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Brooklyn Heights 186 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11201 929-455-2399 929-455-2398 NYU Langone Brooklyn Medical Associates—Kent Street 74 Kent Street, Lower Level, Brooklyn, NY, 11222 929-455-3190 929-455-9767 NYU Langone Brooklyn Orthopedics—Bay 26th Street 153 Bay 26th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11214 718-648-5622 NYU Langone Brooklyn Podiatry Associates—77th Street 441 77th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11209 718-745-3800 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Greenpoint 934 Manhattan Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11222 718-389-8585 929-455-9768 NYU Langone Podiatry Associates—Brooklyn 1309 Avenue P, Lower Level, Brooklyn, NY, 11229 718-615-4444 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Laurelton 228-02 Merrick Boulevard, Laurelton, NY, 11413 646-501-4950 Rusk Rehabilitation at NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Rego Park NYU Langone Orthopedic Associates—Staten Island 1534 Victory Blvd., Staten Island, NY, 10314 718-987-3338 929-455-9695 NYU Langone Advanced Orthopedic Associates—Long Island NYU Langone Advanced Orthopedic Associates—Long Island, East Patchogue 285 Sills Road, Building 18, East Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-475-1224 631-475-1588 NYU Langone Advanced Orthopedic Associates—Long Island, Riverhead 715 Roanoke Avenue, Building A, Suite 4, Riverhead, NY, 11901 NYU Langone Advanced Orthopedic Associates—Long Island, Stony Brook 2500 Nesconset Highway, Building 20-A, Stony Brook, NY, 11790 NYU Langone Ambulatory Care East Meadow 1530 Front Street, East Meadow, NY, 11554 NYU Langone Family Medicine Associates—North Babylon 986 Sunrise Highway, North Babylon, NY, 11703 631-587-6060 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Carle Place 536 Mineola Avenue, Carle Place, NY, 11514 516-333-5054 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Riverhead 889 East Main Street, Suite 308, Riverhead, NY, 11901 631-386-3500 1300 Franklin Avenue, Suite UL3A, Garden City, NY, 11530 516-747-8900 NYU Langone Orthopedics—Westchester NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery—Hackensack 5 Summit Avenue, Suite 200, Hackensack, NJ, 07601 212-598-2781 Julia Koch Family Ambulatory Care Center—West Palm Beach 101 North Clematis Street, Suite 110, West Palm Beach, FL, 33401 561-365-3000 Doctors can refer a patient to an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon by calling 888-769-8633 You can receive urgent orthopedic care at NYU Langone’s Samuels Orthopedic Immediate Care Center from 8:00AM to 10:30PM daily. Learn About Samuels Orthopedic Immediate Care Center Surgeon Saves Man’s Leg After Cancer Battle NYU Langone Orthopedics Film Featured in Tribeca Festival A Center That Restores Hope & Function for Amputees Spinal Fracture Patient Regains Full Range of Motion Preparing for Your Visit as an International Patient At NYU Langone, we strive to make traveling to New York City from abroad for medical care as simple as possible. Upon your arrival, we pair you with a member of our International Patient Services team who assists you throughout your time here. As you are planning your visit to NYU Langone, we offer suggestions for . If you are bringing your child to for medical care, we have suggestions for what to bring preparing for your child’s surgery preparing for your child’s hospital stay We also ask that you fill out the following forms: Authorization for Use and Disclosure of Protected Health Information International Patient Demographic Form To help you prepare for your stay and ensure your comfort once you are here, we provide the following support services. Accommodations Assistance If you are scheduled for inpatient care at one of our hospitals, NYU Langone can offer you a semi-private, private, or deluxe room. If you are seeking outpatient treatment or have people accompanying you who require their own accommodations, we can help. Our International Patient Services team works with to help you find comfortable housing in the New York City area that is respectful of your budget and personal preferences. Interpretation and Translation Services For patients and families who need or prefer to communicate about their healthcare in a language other than English, we provide professional medical interpreters free of charge. We arrange for interpreters who can help you and your family during all phases of your care. We provide face-to-face interpreters, as well as interpreters via telephone and video. For your convenience, we have translated important medical forms and patient health education materials into several languages. Please ask your international coordinator or healthcare provider if these materials are available in your preferred language. Support During Your Visit , including guided meditation, acupuncture, massage, and reflexology, which can be accessed while in the hospital or as an outpatient. Spiritual, religious, and chaplaincy services for adults spiritual, religious, and chaplaincy services for children are available. Our chaplains are trained to counsel people of all faiths and are available to meet with you or your family at any time of day. They offer prayer and emotional support, and can perform religious services such as baptism, communion, and anointing of the sick. Religious items and specialty foods, including kosher snacks and halal meals, are available upon request. For children, we provide to help the experience seem less overwhelming. Our child life specialists art and music therapists help ease feelings of anxiety and help your child cope with medical treatment. To learn more about our services for international patients, please call Ask a Health Information Specialist Form Our librarians can provide answers to questions such as "What is diabetes?" or "Where can I learn more about heart disease?" Questions specific to your personal health such as "Why am I feeling sick?" or "What medications do I need?" should be discussed with a healthcare provider. Confirm Email Question Submit Question NYU Langone’s palliative care and supportive care teams offer symptom relief and emotional support as you recover after a hospital stay or receive care for a chronic condition. Resources are available through the following programs based at our hospitals in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and on Long Island. For programs based at 212-263-6202 Supportive Care for People with Cancer For cancer-specific care, please contact the . They provide cancer pain management and relief of common symptoms, including shortness of breath, nausea, fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, , and stress related to cancer and its treatments. Our team provides personalized, goal-oriented care in conjunction with your oncologist and assists with cancer treatment decisions as appropriate. Please ask your treating oncologist for a referral or call 212-731-5857 Outpatient Supportive and Palliative Care in Manhattan We also provide the following outpatient programs, which are based in Manhattan. Palliative Care for People with Kidney Disease Kidney CARES (Comprehensive Advanced Renal Disease and End Stage Kidney Disease Support) Program provides palliative care for people living with . We address symptoms common to patients with kidney disease, such as pain, itching, insomnia, anxiety, and . We assist with planning for the future, dialysis decision-making, conservative management of kidney disease, and care coordination. Dr. Jennifer S. Scherer , who has expertise in palliative care and nephrology. For more information about Kidney CARES, please call 212-263-0705 jennifer.scherer@nyulangone.org Palliative Care for People with Parkinson’s Disease and Movement Disorders Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders , our supportive care physician, Dr. Yijie Xu , addresses common symptoms of , including depression, anxiety, and difficulty swallowing. She also works closely with your neurologist to clarify treatment goals and assist with planning for the future. Please speak with your neurologist at the Fresco Institute for a referral. Supportive Care for People with Heart, Lung, Liver, and Neurologic Diseases Our providers focus on improving quality of life for people with heart, lung, liver, and non-Parkinson’s neurological diseases, including , by treating symptoms such as shortness of breath, pain, fatigue, anxiety, and depression. We provide guidance in advance care planning and complex decision-making, and work with people being evaluated for organ transplant at the . For more information about our services, please contact Dr. Joseph Lowy Supportive Care for People with Dementia Supportive care for people with is available through the Pearl I. Barlow Center for Memory Evaluation and Treatment Outpatient Supportive and Palliative Care on Long Island , we provide specialized outpatient programs for people with cancer or advanced disease affecting the heart, kidneys, and lungs. Our team—which includes board-certified physicians, nurse practitioners, social workers, and registered nurses—has advanced training in palliative medicine and collaborates with your primary physician and other specialists to understand your goals for care and treatment. Supportive Care for People with Heart Disease Our team provides care for people with heart conditions, including congestive heart failure . We help manage shortness of breath, pain, anxiety, fatigue, and other symptoms. Our team also provides support for you and your family, with care plans and community resources to optimize quality of life, and treatment priorities, including finding the right cardiac device Supportive Care for People with Kidney Disease We provide a personalized plan to help reduce the physical and emotional effects of advanced kidney disease, including depression, insomnia, itching, loss of appetite, nausea, numbness, shortness of breath, and tingling. Supportive kidney care may be helpful, whether or not dialysis is part of your treatment plan—our expert team can also assist with dialysis decision-making, care coordination, emotional support for you and your family, and advance care planning Supportive oncology care is designed for people receiving treatment for symptomatic cancers to maximize their quality of life. Our specialists provide relief from appetite loss, constipation, fatigue, insomnia, nausea, pain, shortness of breath, and weight loss. We collaborate with your oncologist to provide compassionate and goal-oriented care for you and your family at any stage of treatment. Supportive Care for People with Lung Disease We offer a tailored care plan for people with advanced lung disease, including or COPD, pulmonary fibrosis , pulmonary hypertension, and . Our team consults with your pulmonologist to help treat anxiety, fatigue, insomnia, loss of appetite, shortness of breath, weight loss, and other symptoms. We also provide social and emotional support for you and your family throughout your treatment. In addition to talking with you and your family, chaplains are also available to perform various religious services on site at NYU Langone. These include baptism, communion, and the anointing of the sick. Rabbis are available for certain prayer services. Chaplains also counsel, support, and pray with families and patients at the time of death. Sacred Texts and Religious Items Sacred texts are available to all patients at NYU Langone. The Christian Bible, Jewish siddur, and Muslim Koran can be borrowed. Other religious items available upon request include Buddhist mala prayer beads, Catholic rosaries, Jewish Sabbath candles, and Muslim sajajid (prayer rugs). To request these items, please talk with your nurse or fill out our . You can also phone in a request using the following numbers: , please call Patient Relations at Specialty Foods If you have religious dietary needs, such as kosher or halal, please inform your nurse. We also have Bikur Cholim rooms, where kosher meals and snacks are available. The Bikur Cholim room at Tisch Hospital is located on the first floor behind the Meditation Room . At NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, the Bikur Cholim room on the fourth floor provides kosher snacks and Shabbos provisions. The Bikur Cholim room at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital is located on the 13th floor. At NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, Shabbos provisions are available in the Bikur Cholim Room on the first floor, and the offsite Sabbath House, located in Mineola, can accommodate family members in special circumstances. For reservations at the Sabbath House, please call Jean Zebroski at 516-663-4875 Inpatient Psychiatry at Tisch Hospital 212-263-5567 212-263-8525 Electroconvulsive Therapy Program Inpatient psychiatric care is available at NYU Langone’s to people who need immediate and intensive mental healthcare. All admissions to our inpatient psychiatric unit are voluntary, meaning patients sign themselves in. During your stay, you receive a thorough consultation from team of medical experts who specialize in psychiatric care. We identify your symptoms and develop an accurate diagnosis. Your personalized treatment plan can include medication, group therapy, and art, music, and recreation therapy . We also offer nutrition counseling, yoga, horticultural therapy, and spiritual and religious support . Neuropsychological testing and neuropsychiatric consultations are provided if your care team believes they are necessary. Our Psychiatric Expertise Every patient is assigned a personal treatment team that includes a psychiatrist, psychiatric nurse, social worker, art therapist, and recreation therapist. Our team has special expertise in treating people who have mood, personality, and psychotic disorders, such as , borderline personality disorder, bipolar disorder schizophrenia Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is prescribed for people with severe mood disorders who may benefit from the treatment. Our nursing staff cares for people experiencing both medical and behavioral healthcare issues. This allows patients who are being treated at Tisch Hospital for another condition to continue receiving their needed medical care while they are in the inpatient psychiatric unit. The majority of our patients are admitted to inpatient psychiatric services after being treated in NYU Langone’s Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services on First Avenue in Manhattan. Admission to the Inpatient Psychiatric Unit Most people are admitted to our inpatient psychiatric unit after being treated in the . In some instances, we accept patients from outside hospitals. Patients must be age 18 or older. The average length of stay is seven to eight days. We accept insurance and assure confidentiality and privacy. For more information, please call If you or a loved one are experiencing a psychiatric emergency, please call 911 or visit the emergency care location closest to you. Our Doctors Our experts specialize in psychiatric care and treat people who have mood, personality, and psychotic disorders. Bem L. Atim Free Wi-Fi is available to patients and visitors. When permitted, patients are allowed to use cell phones and computers during their stay, but use of photography is prohibited. Palliative Care & Supportive Care for Adults Care Team The palliative care and supportive care team at NYU Langone includes doctors, nurse practitioners, chaplains, and social workers who are focused on providing the highest level of care to people who are experiencing a serious or life-limiting illness. Listed below are care team members for the following locations: Tisch Hospital, Kimmel Pavilion, and NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital The palliative care and supportive care team at includes the following physicians: JL Joseph Lowy, MD Director of Palliative Care View Full Profile NR Nina J. Ricci, DO Associate Director of Palliative Care AG Annette A. Georgia, MD Palliative Care Physician YG Yolanda Guzman, MD OS Olivia Seecof, MD Palliative Care and Supportive Oncology Care Physician Megan E. Rau, MD, MPH Palliative Care and Geriatrics Physician JS Jennifer S. Scherer, MD Palliative Care and Nephrology Physician Renata Shabin, MSN, RN, AGPCNP-BC, ACHPN Nurse Practitioner Ms. Shabin is a board-certified adult gerontology primary care nurse practitioner with specialty training and board certification in palliative care. She completed both her undergraduate and graduate education at NYU. In high school, she worked as an emergency medical technician and ambulance driver, which sparked her interest in nursing and desire to develop relationships with her patients. As a nurse, she cares for people with complex conditions and those in the emergency department. She serves as a clinical instructor for graduate nursing students at NYU Rory Meyers School of Nursing. Erin Barnes, MSN, RN, FNP-C, ACHPN Ms. Barnes, a nurse practitioner, joined the palliative care team in 2019 after working with patients who have genetic and acquired autonomic nervous system disorders. Before becoming a nurse practitioner, she worked as a critical care nurse for seven years. She received her doctor of nursing practice degree from NYU Rory Meyers School of Nursing. AS Amy Sevick, MS, RN, FNP-BC, CHPN Ms. Sevick is a board-certified family primary care nurse practitioner with specialty training in palliative care. Before becoming a nurse practitioner, she worked for many years as a registered nurse in inpatient psychiatry, critical care, and hospice. Christopher Oates Social Work Manager Mr. Oates is a licensed clinical social worker and a leadership fellow at the Zelda Foster Studies Program in Palliative and End-of-Life Care at NYU Silver School of Social Work. He received his master’s degree in social work from Columbia University and master of public administration degree from Baruch College. He has served on the executive boards of the New York City Chapter of the Society for Social Work Leadership in Healthcare, the Helen Rehr Center for Social Work Practice, and the East Side Council of the Aging. BR Bena Reiter, LCSW Ms. Reiter holds a master’s degree from the Wurzweiler School of Social Work at Yeshiva University. She joined NYU Langone in 2010 and has been a licensed clinical social worker with the Tisch Hospital, Kimmel Pavilion, and NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital teams since 2014. Elizabeth Kitamura, BCC Staff Chaplain Chaplain Kitamura is a board-certified chaplain with the National Association of Catholic Chaplains. She received her master’s degree in theology from Catholic Theological Union in Chicago and is a master’s degree candidate at NYU School of Global Public Health. Before joining NYU Langone, she completed her clinical training at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, Illinois, and Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, and was also a research fellow at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center. The following physicians provide supportive care to patients at : AK Arum Kim, MD Director of the Supportive Oncology Program Akash Shah, MD Palliative and Supportive Oncology Care Physician NB Nancy E. Bael, MD LP Lauren A. Parker, MD Medical Director of Geriatrics and Palliative Care Elena A. Kuzin-Palmeri, MSN, ANP, GNP-BC, AOCN, ACHPN Palliative Care Nurse Ms. Kuzin-Palmeri is a board-certified gerontology, advanced oncology, and advanced hospice and palliative care nurse with more than 30 years of experience. Prior to joining NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn in 2013, she worked in a variety of settings, including palliative care and home-based care at the Brooklyn VA Medical Center, radiation oncology care at Mount Sinai Beth Israel, pain medicine and palliative care at NYC Health + Hospitals/Metropolitan, and several home-based care programs for homebound older adults. KR Kate Rex, LCSW Ms. Rex holds a master’s degree in social work from Lehman College and completed the James J. Peters VA Medical Center Geriatric Research Fellowship in palliative care and social work. Ms. Rex has more than 13 years of hospital social work experience in Brooklyn and has been with NYU Langone since 2016. RT Rabbi Kara L. Tav, BCC Chaplain Rabbi Kara L. Tav, BCC, leads the spiritual care department at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and is staff chaplain for the palliative care team and preceptor for student chaplains. She is a board-certified chaplain with Neshama: Association of Jewish Chaplains and an ordained Conservative rabbi. She received her master’s degree in divinity from Jewish Theological Seminary and a master’s degree in education from Teachers College, Columbia University. Before joining NYU Langone, Rabbi Tav worked at NYC Health + Hospitals/Elmhurst as director of their first multifaith spiritual care department and palliative care staff chaplain, and she was a palliative care chaplain and end-of-life care specialist at the Manhattan, NY Vet Center. The Palliative Care and Supportive Care Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island is led by the following physicians: Jeffrey T. Berger, MD AH Amanda J. Hafeez, MD PP Priya A. Pinto, MD DS Dustin E. Suanino, MD LA Latifat Adeyemi, MS, ANP-BC Adult Nurse Practitioner Ms. Adeyemi is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner. She completed subspecialty training in palliative care and received a master’s degree from NYU. Before joining the palliative care team, she worked for more than seven years as an oncology–hematology registered nurse. Kathleen DiGangi Condon, DNP, MA, ANP-BC Dr. DiGangi Condon is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner with a doctorate of nursing practice from Stony Brook University. She earned her bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Columbia University School of Nursing and holds a bachelor’s degree from the College of the Holy Cross and a master’s degree from the University of Notre Dame. CK Catherine A. Kobza, MS, AGACNP-BC, CCRN Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Ms. Kobza is a board-certified adult gerontology acute care nurse practitioner. She earned her bachelor’s and master’s degrees and postgraduate certificate in adult oncology from the University of Pennsylvania. Ms. Kobza is certified in critical care nursing and holds a bachelor’s degree from Bucknell University, and completed an advanced practice provider fellowship in critical care medicine at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, she provided care and support for patients and families with various acute and chronic illnesses as a medical–surgical telemetry and cardiothoracic intensive care unit registered nurse. KS Kathryn Stein, MS, AGPCNP-BC Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Ms. Stein is a board-certified adult gerontology primary care nurse practitioner. She received her master’s degree and subspecialty training in palliative care from NYU Rory Meyers School of Nursing. Ms. Stein also holds bachelor’s degrees from Johns Hopkins University and NYU. Prior to joining NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, she provided support and care for patients and their families in a variety of settings, including inpatient hematology–oncology, intensive care, and a multiple sclerosis outpatient practice. DR Dana Ribeiro Miller, M. Div., LCSW, APHSW-C Social Worker Ms. Ribeiro Miller is a licensed clinical social worker. She holds a master’s degree in social work from Columbia University School of Social Work, where she was a recipient of the Dr. Maurice V. Russell Fellowship for Medical Social Work. She also received a master’s degree in divinity from Union Theological Seminary, and a bachelor’s of science degree from Rutgers University. Ms. Ribeiro Miller completed her subspecialty palliative care training at Mount Sinai Beth Israel, and is a clinical instructor of medicine and frequent lecturer at NYU Long Island School of Medicine. She has published in the bioethics and social work literature and lectures regionally and nationally for organizations such as the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization and the Social Work Hospice and Palliative Care Network. She is also a member of the NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Medical Ethics Workgroup and the Spiritual Care Services Advisory Committee. Nicole Rossi, LCSW, APHSW-C Ms. Rossi holds a master’s degree from Fordham University School of Social Work and a bachelor’s degree from the University of Rhode Island. She has experience in hospice and oncology social work in a variety of settings, including hospitals, home care, outpatient clinics, and long-term care facilities. Ms. Rossi completed a postgraduate certificate program in palliative and end-of-life care through Smith College School for Social Work. Spaces for prayer, meditation, or contemplation are available at several NYU Langone locations. All spaces are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and are available to patients and guests. Contemplative Space at Tisch Hospital The Meditation Room at NYU Langone’s , located on the blue pathway beyond the Tisch elevators, offers a space for prayer and quiet reflection. Meditation Mondays A free meditation group meets on Mondays from 12:00PM to 12:30PM. Meditation Mondays are open to all, regardless of religious background or meditation experience. Chaplains and integrative health specialists work collaboratively to provide this service. Instruction is given, followed by silent or guided practice. For more information, please contact us at Contemplative Spaces at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn The chapel at is open to people of all faiths who seek a quiet place for prayer and reflection. NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn also has prayer rooms for people of Muslim and Jewish faith. Contemplative Space at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island The Serenity Chapel at is located across from the gift shop and is available to people of all faiths. It is open daily from 5:30AM until 10:00PM for personal prayer, meditation, and observing silence. The spiritual care team leads weekly services in the Serenity Chapel, and we also offer bereavement support groups and educational lectures At NYU Langone, our commitment to teaching future healthcare professionals extends to spiritual care and our chaplain internship programs. Clinical pastoral education (CPE) brings theological students and seminarian ministers of all faiths together in a multicultural environment. NYU Langone’s CPE programs are accredited by the Association for Clinical Pastoral Education (ACPE) and we offer full- and part-time options. After a thorough orientation, interns are assigned to clinical units to provide spiritual care to patients, families, and staff. Interns are supervised by educators and supported by preceptors and mentors. Chaplain interns learn how to listen to and engage with patients and their loved ones, build rapport, and respond to verbal and nonverbal communication. Students develop a deeper understanding of themselves, others, and the ministry. Chaplain Internship Program at NYU Langone Our chaplain internship program is open to ministers of all faiths, theological students, qualified laypersons, and any professionals who are engaged in related work or studies. Students are required to spend 400 supervised hours of ministry practice, including 300 hours on clinical work plus 100 hours in the classroom and on individual education. Our part-time units, held in spring and fall, both require 18 hours per week of clinical visits, done on a flexible schedule. The spring extended unit lasts from early January to early May, and the fall extended units goes from late August through late December. The full-time summer unit, which requires 40 hours a week, lasts 11 weeks, beginning in late May and ending in early August. Below is our internship schedule for 2025 and beyond. Spring 2025 Extended Unit January 6 to May 9 (18 weeks) CPE Class: Tuesday 8:00AM–2:30PM Clinical Work: 18 hours per week, on a flexible schedule Summer 2025 Full-Time Intensive Unit May 27 to August 8 (11 weeks) CPE Class: Tuesday 8:00AM–4:00PM and Thursday 8:00AM–12:00PM Clinical Work: Monday through Friday, 9:00AM–5:00PM, when CPE class is not being held Fall 2025 Extended Unit August 19 to December 19 (18 weeks) Spring 2026 Extended Unit January 5 to May 8 (18 weeks) Summer 2026 Full-Time Intensive Unit May 26 to August 7 (11 weeks) CPE Class: Tuesdays 8:00AM–4:00PM and Thursday 8:00AM–12:00PM CPE classes typically take place at 550 First Avenue, Manhattan. CPE clinical placements are at the following locations: , 550 First Avenue, Manhattan , 434 East 34th Street, Manhattan , 430 East 34th Street, Manhattan , 301 East 17th Street, Manhattan , 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY Requirements and Application Prospective students must have earned a bachelor’s degree or equivalent, and one or more years of theological or religious training is preferred. Applicants must undergo a background check and health clearance. We believe students from a variety of backgrounds and experiences help inspire excellence and address inequities in healthcare in our patient communities. We promote respect, tolerance, and expanding the diversity of our community. Students of underrepresented backgrounds, including but not limited to those who identify as Black or African American, Latinx, Native American, Native Pacific Islander, or Native Alaskan, are encouraged to apply. CPE applications are received on a rolling basis until all openings are filled. Once the program is at capacity, applications may be held on a waiting list for consideration in the next available unit. Tuition is $800 per unit, with a nonrefundable deposit of $300 due with your acceptance materials. The $500 balance is due on the first day of your CPE program. Your ecclesial body or seminary may be able to provide funding to help defray the costs. Please complete the ACPE application use of clinical materials consent form and mail them to this address: Rev. Young-Ki Eun, CPE Director 545 First Avenue Floor C-Room 019 You can also email your application to Young-Ki.Eun@NYULangone.org For more information on our CPE programs, please contact SpiritualCare@NYULangone.org Our Specialties Our neurologists are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Dysautonomia Center Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Neuro-Ophthalmology Program Neuropalliative Care Pediatric Epilepsy Program Pediatric Multiple Sclerosis Center tDCS Program Ranked No. 1 in the U.S. ’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery. Top Ranked Specialties NYU Langone has 13 top-ranked specialties in the nation, according to When it comes to your brain, only the best will do. NYU Langone neurologists are dedicated to providing exceptional patient care, driven by innovative scientific research. Our record of excellence is reflected in our No. 1 ranking in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery in U.S. News and World Report’s “Best Hospitals.” We’re advancing our knowledge of neurology through innovative research and clinical trials. We also train the next generation of world-class neurologists. With more than 260 faculty and over 100,000 outpatient visits annually, we provide outstanding, compassionate care and treat a broad range of neurological conditions, from headache autonomic disorders , to more rare conditions, such as atypical facial pain myasthenia gravis A Team Approach to Neurology Care As leaders in the field of conditions that affect the brain and nervous system, NYU Langone is home to the country’s most prominent programs and centers, and our cross-disciplinary expertise helps us unravel the most complex clinical puzzles. Experts at our provide personalized treatment plans for people living with multiple sclerosis (MS) , while doctors at our , take a humanistic and empathetic approach to care for people who have such as , essential tremor, and dystonia. Comprehensive Stoke Center , certified by The Joint Commission, provides the most advanced care 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and is part of the integrated , which benefits from close work with specialists across NYU Langone. Brain Recordings Reveal How All Minds Plan Speech Together with our colleagues at the , we have improved diagnosis, while our is among the largest epilepsy and seizure disorders treatment programs in the United States, specializing in treating challenging forms of epilepsy, including epilepsy in children Specialized Care for Brain and Nervous System Disorders We monitor our patients’ neurological status with state-of-the-art diagnostic techniques and work to develop increasingly effective therapies to manage their conditions. Our provides genetic testing and evaluation to identify and better understand conditions that effect the brain and nervous system, and doctors at our analyze eye movements to aid in the diagnosis of a variety of neurological conditions affecting the vision nerves, brain vision pathways, and eye movements, such as double vision and optic neuritis. , our team provides early diagnosis and the appropriate treatments for Alzheimer’s disease memory loss , coupled with support services for families and caregivers. With our vast expertise and depth of knowledge, our neurology team emphasizes compassion and comfort, and we customize our treatments to meet your unique needs. Our neurologists are available at throughout the New York City area and the surrounding suburbs of Long Island. Our Neurology Centers and Programs We offer immediate diagnosis and treatment, as well as rehabilitation services, in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Our experts offer superior clinical care for people with autonomic disorders. We help people with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders to achieve the highest possible quality of life. We offer support for people with multiple sclerosis, while also working toward a cure. We provide high-quality care to people with disorders affecting vision and the nervous system. Our experts provide diagnosis and treatment of neurogenetic conditions. We provide the treatment and support you need when dealing with memory loss. We provide expert diagnosis and treatment for children and teens with epilepsy. We provide treatment and support for children living with multiple sclerosis. We offer at-home tDCS sessions through the NYU Langone Health app. New Drug Offers Relief for Treatment-Resistant Epilepsy Rapid Stroke Treatment Is Lifesaving for Brooklyn Patient Teleneurology Challenges Met by Training Curriculum How Doctors Solved the Mystery of the Dancing Scar Restoring Key Brain Rhythm May Help Treat Depression Stressful Events Worsen Long COVID Symptoms Research Partnership Tackles Parkinson’s Disease Progression Cognitive Neurology Expert Reflects on World Alzheimer’s Day NYU Langone Is an Integrated Comprehensive Stroke Center Center for Diabetes & Metabolic Health Care Team At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, our patients are cared for by a team of medical professionals who are specially trained to help people learn how to manage diabetes. Clinical nutrition coordinator Emily Johnston and nurse Courtney Albert discuss a patient’s case. Inpatient Glycemic Management Service Our inpatient nurse practitioners care for people who have diabetes and glucose problems while they are in the hospital, and provide inpatient discharge services that help you transition to managing your condition at home. Our inpatient services are available to people at NYU Langone’s E. Dessa Garnett, MSN, FNP-BC, CDE, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Garnett is a board-certified nurse practitioner and certified diabetes educator. She works with patients while they are in the hospital to help them achieve a healthy blood glucose level, and creates plans to help maintain their health at home. Ms. Garnett earned her master of science degree in nursing from SUNY Downstate. Yonit Lipkind, MSN, FNP-BC, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Lipkind is a board-certified family nurse practitioner. She works with people who have diabetes while they are in the hospital to help them achieve a healthy blood glucose level. She also educates patients on ways they can properly control their blood glucose levels once they return home. Annie D. Lu, MSN, ANP-BC, BC-ADM, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Lu is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner who has more than 10 years of experience helping people with diabetes better manage the condition. She is board certified in advanced diabetes management and specializes in providing diabetes care in a hospital setting and helping people as they transition back home. She earned her master of science degree in nursing from Columbia University. Victoria Maffey, MSN, RN, CDE, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Maffey is a board-certified family nurse practitioner and certified diabetes educator who helps patients who are newly diagnosed with type 1 or type 2 diabetes learn how to control blood glucose levels. She also helps patients struggling with glucose control learn better ways to manage the condition. Her goal is to improve her patients’ overall health and teach them ways to easily and actively manage diabetes in their everyday lives. Iryna Sasinovich, MSN, RN, CDE, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Sasinovich is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner and certified diabetes educator. She assists doctors and nurse practitioners to help hospitalized patients who have type 1 and 2 diabetes achieve better glycemic control. This can shorten the length of a hospital stay and reduce the risk of infection. She also specializes in helping people who are newly diagnosed or have poorly controlled diabetes better manage the condition. Sandra Waugh, DNP, FNP-BC, MSN, RN, Nurse Practitioner Dr. Waugh, who holds a doctorate in nursing practice, is a board-certified family nurse practitioner. She educates patients and their families about diabetes and how best to manage the condition in everyday life. Her goal is to help patients maintain a healthy blood glucose level, which in turn improves their overall health. Dr. Waugh received her doctorate from Robert Morris University and both her master of science degree in nursing and family nurse practitioner degree from Molloy College. Center for Diabetes and Endocrinology Outpatient Care Team Our team of certified diabetes educators, registered dietitians, and registered nurses assist patients at several of our outpatient locations. Courtney Albert, BSN, CDE, Registered Nurse Ms. Albert, a certified diabetes educator, takes an individualized approach to educating patients on the best ways to manage diabetes. This includes helping people adapt to life with diabetes, understand their medications, and manage symptoms that can accompany the condition. She also helps patients identify and put into practice the lifestyle modifications that are most likely to improve their overall health. Angela T. Amendola, MS, PA-C, RD, CDE, Physician Assistant Ms. Amendola is a physician assistant, certified diabetes educator, and registered dietitian. She earned her master of science degree in applied physiology and nutrition from Columbia University and completed her physician assistant studies at Hahnemann University. She provides diabetes education and nutrition counseling to patients. She also educates and advises them on ways to improve their glycemic control and diabetes management. Abigail Kennedy-Grant MS, RD, CDE, CDN, Registered Dietitian and Certified Diabetes Educator Ms. Kennedy-Grant completed her master of science degree in clinical nutrition and dietetic internship at New York University. She specializes in diabetes and nutrition education, especially for those who have type 1 diabetes. She is a certified dietitian nutritionist and a certified trainer on multiple insulin pump models and continuous glucose monitors. Ms. Kennedy-Grant is excited to help patients master the healthy habits that lead to achieving diabetes control, weight goals, and best health. Sunhi Shin, MA, RN, CDE Ms. Shin is a registered nurse and certified diabetes educator. She is passionate about diabetes education and uses education and lifestyle changes to help her patients manage their health. Ms. Shin practices at Concorde Medical Group. Diana Ventimiglia, RN-BC, BSN, Registered Nurse Ms. Ventimiglia is a board-certified medical–surgical registered nurse. She educates patients on ways to manage diabetes, including proper use of medication, and provides support to help them achieve their diet and exercise goals. If you’ve been diagnosed with , the right medication and lifestyle modifications can significantly improve your health. At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, our team of experts helps find the treatment approach that is right for you. Dr. Michael Bergman tests a patient's glucose levels. We determine whether oral medications, insulin, or newer medicines that improve blood glucose control while reducing appetite to trigger weight loss are best for you. Lifestyle modifications, such as improving diet and exercise to achieve meaningful weight loss, also have a huge impact on your health. We identify the changes that can be most helpful, and provide the support you need to make them part of your everyday life. Care for Type 2 Diabetes Type 2 diabetes occurs when the body is unable to use its natural insulin to keep blood glucose levels in a normal range. High blood glucose levels cause damage throughout the body, such as the heart, eyes, kidneys, and nerves. High blood pressure and uncontrolled cholesterol, which occur frequently in people with type 2 diabetes, worsen these complications. With the right treatment, it is possible to limit the impact of type 2 diabetes. Our endocrinologists determine which medicine provides you with the best blood glucose control. Our nurses, who are certified diabetes educators, help you to understand what it means to have type 2 diabetes and the best way to manage everyday life with diabetes. Our nutritionist is available to help you create a healthy eating plan that fits with your lifestyle. For some people, medical or surgical weight loss can put a stop to diabetes’ damaging effects on the body. We can connect you with NYU Langone’s Our goal is to help you gain control over type 2 diabetes so you can avoid the dangerous conditions that may accompany it, such as neuropathy , and vision loss. Type 2 diabetes care is provided by the following physicians: Nidhi Agrawal, MD Michael Bergman, MD Sonal Chaudhry, MD Aaron R. Chidakel, MD Sandra T. Foo, MD Ira J. Goldberg, MD Alina Gouller, MD Akankasha Goyal, MD Loren Wissner Greene, MD Gillian Katz, MD Sanjiv Kinkhabwala, MD Olga Leonardi, MD Valerie H. Peck, MD Stephen B. Richardson, MD Lawrence Rosman, MD Nina Sundaram, MD Stuart Weiss, MD Susan Zweig, MD For people with type 1 diabetes, taking insulin each day is a fundamental part of keeping blood glucose levels in check. But this is only one aspect of managing type 1 diabetes. Patient education and support are also crucial. Our experts provide patients with the tools needed to successfully manage type 1 diabetes. At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, we determine the treatment plan that is best for you, while also providing the tools and information you need to ensure your health and wellbeing. Focused Care for Type 1 Diabetes Type 1 diabetes occurs when the body fails to make its own insulin, a hormone that is essential for moving blood glucose into cells where it is used to produce energy. People with type 1 diabetes are usually diagnosed in childhood or young adulthood, but their medical needs last a lifetime. Whether you’ve been treated at NYU Langone’s or you’re an adult who is new to NYU Langone, our care team can develop a treatment plan to keep you healthy and help you successfully manage type 1 diabetes. Our endocrinologists monitor your insulin needs, which can change as you age. We determine the type of insulin that provides the best blood glucose control, and which delivery system is best for you, such as syringe injections, insulin pens, or an insulin pump. For patients that can benefit from using continuous glucose monitors, we’re experts in using these devices. Our certified diabetes educators and registered dieticians help you understand the impact that dietary carbohydrates and food choices have on insulin levels, and how to adjust your medicine accordingly. We also teach you how to recognize and treat spikes and dips in blood glucose levels, and help you understand how exercise and illness affect your diabetes control. As people with this condition age, if diabetes, blood pressure and cholesterol are not well controlled, the chances of foot ulcers increase. People with type 1 diabetes are also at greater risk of hypoglycemia, which is dangerously low blood glucose levels. Proper blood glucose control helps reduce these risks. If these conditions do develop, we have the expertise to help you manage them. Our goal is to help you maintain your everyday health, so you can live a long, healthy life on your terms. Type 1 diabetes care is provided by the following doctors: Sanjiv V. Kinkhabwala, MD Financial Information for International Patients At NYU Langone, we understand that the cost of medical care is a determining factor in where you choose to receive treatment. For that reason, our International Patient Services team provides high-quality healthcare services at competitive prices. As part of our service to you, our team seamlessly provides a fair and honest assessment of what you can expect to pay for your treatment. Your dedicated international coordinator provides you with an estimate of your medical costs, including both hospital and physician (professional) charges. The coordinator also helps with collecting the payment prior to your receiving care. The only exceptions are people who receive health coverage through their foreign embassy or people who participate in an international insurance program accepted by NYU Langone. In this case, your coordinator works with you on securing a letter of prior authorization either from your embassy or insurer. +1-212-263-3588 The spiritual care team at NYU Langone includes chaplains, rabbis, priests, and imams who are available to counsel people of all faiths, as well as those who do not have a spiritual practice. Our chaplains are board-certified or eligible for certification, meaning they have finished their theological and clinical pastoral education and are completing an additional 2,000 hours of clinical work as well as a professional board review. Our chaplains are available at our inpatient facilities in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Manhattan Spiritual Care Team Chaplains at NYU Langone’s are available weekdays from 9:00AM to 5:00PM. Chaplains at are available by request . If you would like to speak to a chaplain, rabbi, priest, or imam after hours, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Rabbi Amy Ruth Bolton, MA, BCC Rabbi Bolton is a board-certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains. She received her master of arts in rabbinic studies and ordination from the Ziegler School of Rabbinic Studies at American Jewish University. Before joining NYU Langone, Rabbi Bolton served as a hospice chaplain with VNS Health. She has more than two decades of experience providing care in home, assisted living, long-term care, and hospital settings. Her professional experience also includes addiction recovery and adult and youth education. Rabbi Bolton is a co-founder of Lifestorms, a program offering integrated psycho-emotional and spiritual support. She speaks English and Hebrew. The Reverend Young-ki Eun, MDiv, ACPE Clinical Pastoral Educator (CPE) Rev. Eun is an ordained Presbyterian minister with more than 20 years’ experience working as a CPE educator, chaplain, university faculty member, and parish minister. He graduated from the University of Toronto/Knox College with a master’s degree in divinity. He has completed postgraduate studies in theology, English, linguistics, and psychoanalytic studies, as well as four years of clinical training in psychotherapy. Rev. Eun started his CPE journey in 1999 at Toronto General Hospital, Canada. His work as a CPE supervisor includes New York-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center; The Hospital of St. Raphael (now Yale New Haven Hospital-St Raphael Campus), Connecticut; Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston; Ochsner Health System, New Orleans; and Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee. As an ACPE-certified educator, Rev. Eun has a passion for empowering chaplain residents and interns to gain a deeper connection with their authentic selves in a genuine, diverse, and trustworthy learning environment, and to forge and strengthen their own personal and professional identity in their spiritual-care ministry of compassion. Ahmet M. Atlig, PhD, BCC Staff Chaplain and Imam Dr. Atlig began his career at the Imams and Preachers Seminary in Izmir, Turkey, where he was ordained as an imam and Muslim cleric. He received his doctorate in philosophy from the Theology Department at the University of West Coast, and then served as the imam of New Peckham Mosque, in London. After relocating to the United States, Dr. Atlig completed the Clinical Pastoral Education program at VA New York Harbor Healthcare System and became a board-certified chaplain with HealthCare Chaplaincy Network in 2019. Before joining NYU Langone, he served as a chaplain at various New York City hospitals. Dr. Atlig speaks Turkish, Arabic, and English, and is married, with three children. Shaul Praver, BCC, DMin Staff Chaplain and Rabbi Chaplain Praver is a board-certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains and ordained by the Jerusalem Rabbinate. He received his doctorate in ministry from Hartford International University for Religion and Peace and completed his clinical training at Norwalk Hospital, both in Connecticut. Before joining NYU Langone, he served as chaplain–rabbi with the Connecticut Department of Correction. Prior to that, Chaplain Praver served as the spiritual leader of Congregation Adath Israel in Newtown, Connecticut. The Reverend W. Kaytlin Butler, MDiv Rev. Butler is a board-certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains. She received her master’s degree in divinity from Union Theological Seminary in the City of New York, and she is an ordained teaching elder in the Presbyterian Church (USA). Before joining NYU Langone, she served as a chaplain for six years at Mount Sinai Hospital, where she also completed her clinical training. She is a widely respected speaker on subjects of spirituality and health. Rev. Butler serves as children’s services chaplain for Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care at Hassenfeld Children's Hospital at NYU Langone. The Reverend Rosemarie Napoli Associate Staff Chaplain Rev. Napoli is a Minister of Word and Sacrament in the Presbyterian Church USA. She has special interest in working with people with addictions and those living with HIV and AIDS. Rev. Napoli serves as the Associate Pastor at Fourth Avenue Presbyterian Church in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. The Reverend Dwayne McClary, MDiv Rev. McClary received his master of divinity at Yale University and is ordained by the American Baptist Churches USA. Prior to joining NYU Langone, Rev. McClary completed his clinical training at Bridgeport and Norwalk Hospitals, both in Connecticut. He is also a seasoned music executive who has held marketing posts at Motown, Universal, and MCA Records. Rev. McClary holds a bachelor’s degree in journalism/communications from Rutgers University and certification in marketing from NYU’s School of Professional Studies. The Reverend Stephen Okeke Roman Catholic Priest Father Okeke received his master’s degree in pastoral theology from St. John’s University and his doctorate in pastoral counseling from Hebrew Union College—Jewish Institute of Religion in New York City. He worked in Nigeria for three years as an associate pastor and a chaplain with the St. Stephen’s Society. Father Okeke is also chaplain to the Igbo Catholic community in the Bronx, serving people whose roots are in West Africa. Jenelle Halley Department Secretary Ms. Halley’s passion for maintaining a positive and respectful work environment led her to our spiritual care team, where she manages all department events, meetings, patient requests, services, and training. Ms. Halley also provides administrative support to our department, and serves as the liaison between patients, the spiritual care team, and hospital leadership. Brooklyn Spiritual Care Team Chaplains are available on-site at on weekdays between 9:00AM and 5:00PM and on Sundays from 12:00 to 4:00PM. For more information, please call the Spiritual Care office at ; you can also request a nursing consult for spiritual needs. If you have an urgent spiritual need outside of the hours listed, please ask your nurse to call or the hospital operator for available resources. The Reverend Ray Lewis Jr. Rev. Lewis is a board-certified chaplain and pastoral counselor ordained by Hartford Memorial Baptist Church in Michigan. He received his master’s degree in divinity from Emory University in Georgia and his doctorate in pastoral care from the United Lutheran Seminary of Philadelphia. Rev. Lewis is currently pursuing a diplomate in pastoral supervision at The College of Pastoral Supervision and Psychotherapy. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, he served as an adjunct instructor, pastor, and chaplain with the Florida Department of Corrections, VITAS and VNA hospice care, and the Level 1 Trauma Center at Penn Medicine. The Reverend Emmanuel Conduah Father Conduah has a postgraduate diploma in education from the University of Cape Coast in Ghana. He is working towards his doctorate in educational leadership at Fordham University and his clinical pastoral education certification with the National Association of Catholic Chaplains, under the endorsement of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn. Monica-Lisa Mills Monica-Lisa Mills received her master’s degree in divinity from New York City’s Episcopal Divinity School. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, she completed her clinical training at NewYork-Presbyterian’s Columbia University Irving Medical Center and its Brooklyn Methodist Hospital. Chaplain Mills is a visual artist and musician and previously worked as a high school ethics and religion teacher. Long Island Spiritual Care Team on weekdays between 8:30AM and 11:00PM. Please call to arrange a visit. If you have an urgent spiritual need after hours, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Learn how you can support our Spiritual Care Program Learn more about the Learn more about the staff of NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation, which provides parent education and support. Victoria Masterson, CLC, CSPT, Program Coordinator Ms. Masterson has been a member of the NYU Langone family since 1987, beginning her career as a credentialing coordinator for the Emergency Department and managing training for all incoming resident and attending physicians. After transferring to Perinatal Education and Lactation in 2007, she is now responsible for the administrative support for all parent education programs, handling day-to-day operations for all classes, and is the administrative coordinator of our Lactation Telehealth Program.  Ms. Masterson holds a bachelor’s degree in child development, is an American Heart Association (AHA) cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) instructor, a nationally certified child passenger safety technician, a baby sign language instructor, and a certified lactation counselor. Rachel Leibson, RN, BSN, IBCLC, BA, Nurse Coordinator of Lactation Services Ms. Leibson has been with NYU Langone since January of 2020. She was hired as a lactation specialist and became a nurse coordinator in 2021. Ms. Leibson’s career has included postpartum nursing, pediatric outpatient nursing, and inpatient and outpatient lactation consulting. She believes in respectful care of every family and is passionate about helping them meet their feeding goals with nonjudgmental support and education. She coordinates a team of lactation specialists at Tisch Hospital and is proud of the empathetic and skilled care they provide to their patients. Elizabeth Lampert, RN, MSN ED, CLC, LCCE, Nurse Coordinator for Parent Education and Community Outreach As a doula and childbirth educator, Ms. Lampert has worked as a maternal–child health nurse and educator for more than 20 years at hospitals in New Jersey and New York. She is an advanced and basic cardiac life support and neonatal resuscitation instructor and a TeamSTEPPS master trainer. The recorded Ready, Set, Baby! information session guides you through what happens from the time you arrive at the hospital to delivery, discharge, and your return home. Links are available for those delivering at NYU Langone’s , and they include photos and videos showcasing our units and special programs. For more information, please email register online The following eClasses, from NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation, are available in your choice of eight languages: English, Arabic, Spanish, French, Portuguese, German, Japanese, and Chinese. You can progress at your own pace: after you first sign on, you have nine months to complete or review the class before you lose access. eClasses can be viewed on your smartphone, computer, or tablet, and their sections can be viewed in any order. Understanding Birth Consider this class your go-to guide for answers you can trust on pregnancy, labor, comfort techniques, medical procedures, and newborn and postpartum information. This interactive online course also highlights ways partners or support persons can help throughout the process. You’ll also get a sense of what labor is really like as you watch several birth stories, and you’ll also have the opportunity to create your own birth plan. : $150 Understanding Fatherhood This class will help guide you through your fatherhood journey—from pregnancy to birth and beyond. Using video clips featuring real fathers and interactive activities, this eClass can help you feel more prepared. We recognize that there are all types of dads and families. No matter what your situation, this inclusive class will offer helpful information as you prepare for this life transition. : $45 Understanding Your Newborn Babies do not come with an owner’s manual, but this online class to is the next best thing. Through instructive video clips, animations, and interactive games, this comprehensive class teaches you how to care for and bond with your newborn. Sleep patterns, comfort techniques, and basic baby care are all covered. : $75 Understanding Breastfeeding Breastfeeding can be an amazing experience, but it is not always easy. This class, which discusses the benefits of breastfeeding and common challenges in a nonjudgmental way, gives you the tools to make the best choice for your family. : $60. Understanding Grandparenting Birth and babies haven’t changed, but what we know about them has. Now you can prepare yourself for your new role from the comfort of home. This interactive online class covers the current evidence-based knowledge about birth, breastfeeding, baby care, and infant safety, and it provides ways for new grandparents to offer support and assistance to the new family. In just a few hours you will learn what’s new, refresh what you already know, and feel more comfortable when called upon to help care for your grandchild. Get ready to take on one of life’s most rewarding roles. The program includes videos, animations, tools and trackers, and an audio library, with lullabies. : $40 We’re excited that you have chosen to deliver your baby at NYU Langone. As you prepare for your baby’s arrival, we encourage you to select an obstetrician and a pediatrician, complete a birth plan, and learn ways to maintain your health during and after . We also provide tips on how to To make the admission process easier when you are in labor, we ask that you fill out our pre-maternity registration packet . Please submit the completed packet to our obstetrics pre-admitting specialists by faxing it to 646-754-9572 or emailing it to ObPre-Adm@NYULangone.org . If you have questions, please call us at 646-501-3967 We can help find the right doctor for you or your child. For expecting mothers, our obstetricians provide specialized care before and after your baby is born. Our pediatricians care for infants, children, and teenagers at Your Birth Plan In order to provide the birthing experience that you want, we encourage you to share your hopes and expectations for childbirth with your doctors and nurses. To start the discussion, please fill out our . After completing the form, please discuss the answers with your doctor and anyone else you plan to have present during the birth such as your partner, birth coach, or midwife. For example, we want to know if an epidural is part of your pain management plan, whether or not you plan to breastfeed, and if you would like your baby to remain in your room for the duration of your stay. Please keep in mind that a birth plan is a guide, not a guarantee. By its nature, birth is dynamic and unpredictable. It’s important to be open and flexible in your expectations, as circumstances can change unexpectedly. We are fully committed to your active participation in the decision-making process throughout the course of your labor. Our goal is to provide you with a beautiful, safe, and memorable birth experience. Psychological Wellbeing At NYU Langone, our psychiatrists provide evaluation and treatment for women with pregnancy-related and postpartum psychiatric disorders. These include mood disorders such as anxiety disorders , postpartum blues, postpartum depression, postpartum obsessive-compulsive disorder, and postpartum psychosis. We can also answer questions about using psychiatric medications during pregnancy and while breastfeeding. Pain Management During Labor and Delivery Our doctors offer different types of pain management options during labor, based on your preferences and needs. Learn more about pain relief during labor and delivery Prenatal and Postpartum Exercise Program Pregnancy and childbirth put a considerable amount of physical stress on the body. As a result, you might ache in places for the first time, such as your neck, lower back, pelvic area, and your joints. Some women also deal with female urinary incontinence You may find relief from this discomfort with the exercise and strength-training techniques taught in the women’s health program at Rusk Rehabilitation Routine Medications After Birth All newborns receive a vitamin K injection and erythromycin eye ointment after birth. The vitamin K injection reduces the risk of bleeding due to a vitamin K deficiency. The erythromycin reduces the risk of severe eye infection. Both treatments are required by law for all infants born in New York. Hepatitis B Vaccine Hepatitis B is a serious and sometimes fatal liver disease caused by the hepatitis B virus. People who are infected with hepatitis B may or may not feel sick, but can still transmit the virus to others. When babies get infected, the virus usually remains in the body for a lifetime. Babies can get the virus from their infected mothers at birth or, more commonly, from an infected person who cares for the baby or works in the home. The hepatitis B vaccine is a baby’s best defense against being infected with this virus. Experts from the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention all recommend vaccination against hepatitis B as a routine part of a newborn’s hospital care, just like checking a baby’s hearing. It is our standard to offer and administer the hepatitis B vaccine to all newborns born at NYU Langone. Spiritual Care Request Form Please contact the spiritual care team using the form below.You can expect a response within one business day. If this is an urgent request, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Hospital and Room Number Describe your Request Prayer Visit from Chaplain Communion Religious Preference (if applicable) NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation offers numerous parent education classes and groups that help you prepare for childbirth and provide you with the support you need when you bring your baby home. Our live online classes, eClasses, and support groups are available to all—and our , available in several languages, let you learn at your own place. Topics we cover include information about the following: pregnancy and childbirth newborn, infant, and toddler parenting breastfeeding In addition, our free teaches you what to expect from the childbirth experience at NYU Langone. For more information about any of these programs, please email . To register for any of these classes or programs, please use our online registration system Pregnancy and Childbirth Classes If you prefer to learn at your own pace or have limited time, consider our eClass Understanding Childbirth Childbirth Express (Live Online) This one-day class is a fast-paced overview of the childbirth experience. Topics include physiology of labor, comfort measures, common practices and interventions, birth preferences, and postpartum adjustments. Register onlin e. : $299 Prepared Childbirth (Live Online) The Prepared Childbirth class is a three-week childbirth education series for pregnant women and their support persons. Topics are based on the Lamaze International philosophy and include birth physiology, including what’s going on before, during, and after labor; comfort techniques during labor; medical interventions, including pain medication; and how to prepare for the immediate and at-home postpartum experience. Each 2.5-hour class is live-streamed, and participants are encouraged to ask questions and participate in discussions with the instructor and other class participants. Ready, Set, Induction! (Recorded Link) Ready, Set, Induction! is a brief recorded presentation about induction of labor—interventions your doctor may use to stimulate uterine contractions before labor begins on its own. This session is intended for women who have been scheduled for induction of labor and their support person. Our instructor provides an overview of the common medical reasons for scheduling induction of labor, as well as information about what to expect when you arrive at the hospital. We also provide answers to the most frequently asked questions about induction of labor. : Free Babywearing (Live Online) Babywearing, which is carrying your baby on your body with an infant carrier, offers many benefits for parents and babies, from enhanced bonding to simple convenience. In this workshop, expecting parents learn the ins and outs of choosing and using baby carriers safely and comfortably. Topics include the biology of babywearing, types of popular carriers, choosing the right carrier for your family, ensuring comfort and safety, and troubleshooting, followed by a question-and-answer session. : $30 Infant Safety Seat Basics (Live Online) Learn the basics of your infant safety seat, including strap positioning, proper harness adjustment for your baby, aftermarket products, and expiration dates. Other topics include height and weight limits, handle positions, and the importance of using infant safety seats even if you do not own a car. This session is ideal for those who already own a car seat. Please have a stuffed animal or infant doll available for the session. : $25 Birth Basics in Japanese and English (Live Online) This four-hour livestreamed class covers the basics of healthy birth. Topics addressed include the Lamaze Six Healthy Birth Practices, stages of labor, medical support and postpartum healing. Learn about laboring at home and at the hospital and practice a variety of pain-coping techniques. This class is taught in Japanese and English and is intended for couples. : $200 Planned Cesarean Birth (Live Online) This two-hour class, taught by a certified childbirth educator, is offered to people who already have a cesarean birth scheduled. This class reviews how best to prepare, what happens during cesarean delivery, and what to expect after your baby is born. : $60 Dogs and Storks (Live Online) During “Dogs and Storks,” we help families that have dogs prepare for life with a baby. We offer positive, practical, and fun solutions that help you include your dog once the newest member of your family arrives. This workshop helps families transition from pet parents to baby parents with pets. Healthy Families (Live Online) Becoming parents can bring profound changes to a couple’s relationship. During the Healthy Families webinar, new and expecting parents learn ways to work through conflict with greater ease, improve communication, create positive parent–infant interactions, maintain relationship satisfaction, reduce the incidence or severity of postpartum mood disorders, and increase friendship in the relationship. This webinar is based on the work of researchers at the Gottman Institute, which teaches the Gottman Method of couples therapy. Healthy Pregnancy (Live Online) During this two-hour presentation, you learn how your baby grows and what physical changes you can expect throughout your pregnancy. Our certified childbirth educator provides practical tips for relieving the physical discomfort that women commonly feel as their babies grow. This class is most appropriate for women and their partners in the first trimester or early second trimester of pregnancy. : $20 Introduction to Vaginal Birth After Cesarean (Recorded Link) This complimentary online webinar provides an overview and discusses the facts about vaginal birth after cesarean (VBAC) , as well as assists you in exploring your childbirth options. Prepared Childbirth Review (Live Online) If this is not your first pregnancy and you’d like a childbirth refresher course, the Prepared Childbirth Review may be for you. This three-hour class, taught by a certified childbirth educator, is offered to couples that have completed the Prepared Childbirth course within the last three years. This is not adequate for couples having their first baby. Please email NYUBaby@NYULangone to request. : $50 Ready, Set, Grandparent! (Live Online) Soon-to-be grandparents are invited to our Ready, Set, Grandparent! class, which explores the transition to this new and exciting role. We discuss generational parenting differences, current maternity and infant care practices, and how to best help new parents. We also review baby care, including feeding, diapering, swaddling, and more. Terrific Twins and Triplets (Live Online) This course helps you and your partner prepare for the unique joys and challenges of raising multiples. From pregnancy to birth to parenting, we provide guidance, tips, and educational tools to help you plan for your new family. We also discuss self-care, baby care, feeding, essential equipment, getting around, and more. Prenatal Yoga (Live Online) This livestreamed class is for pregnant women who have entered their second trimester. Yoga is a safe and beneficial form of prenatal exercise. Movements and poses strengthen and tone the muscles and organs. An emphasis is placed on soothing practices including breathing, meditation, visualization, and relaxation. : $150 for a 4-week series Yoga for Labor and Delivery (Live Online) This two-hour live online session uses movement, positions, breath, and relaxation to support the birthing process. Keeping the mind calm is helpful during childbirth. Sessions are for the expectant mother and her birthing partner. Cost: $50 Newborn, Infant, and Toddler Parenting Classes and Support Going Home with Your Baby (Recorded Link) This recorded presentation contains important information regarding your discharge from the hospital and caring for yourself and your baby in the early days after delivery. We encourage you to view this complimentary video both prior to and again after delivering your baby. Babyproofing and Child Safety (Live Online) During this 75-minute livestreamed class, participants learn about sleep and crib safety, childproofing, fire safety, emergency preparedness, safety products, and ways to prevent poisoning. This session covers safety measures for newborns through the toddler years and general home safety for all. : $40 for 2 participants. Potty Training Basics (Live Online) Learn how to determine when your child is emotionally and physically ready for toilet training in this two-hour live online session. We provide parents of children ages 18 months to 2.5 years of age with strategies to make the process fun and help avoid setbacks. Each session includes plenty of time for discussion. Sign, Say, and Play! (Live Online) Sign, Say, and Play! is a live online baby sign language workshop series for hearing babies. Classes are a fun and entertaining way for parents and hearing babies to learn sign language together. Topics covered in this three-week series include mealtime, bedtime, bath time, getting dressed, pets, and the park. Through songs, activities, books, and instruction, six or seven signs are taught for each topic. Siblings and other family members are welcome to join in. : $90 More Sign, Say, and Play! (Live Online) This second six-week series of “play classes” helps provide parents with information on how they can support their baby’s social and emotional development through fun activities, games, and songs. The curriculum has been designed to follow the first series, although it can be taken as a standalone series. Topics covered in this three-week baby sign language series include feelings, outside, farm, safety, zoo, and birthday. Six or seven signs are learned for each topic. Siblings and other family members are welcome to join in. : $90 ($72 if you previously purchased the first baby sign language series) Mothers with Toddlers Group (Live Online) During our Mothers with Toddlers Group, moms meet virtually to discuss their children’s behaviors, share their experiences, and provide encouragement. The group is facilitated by our professional staff who share and offer guidance when needed. : Free for mothers who delivered at NYU Langone; $15 for the general public Infant CPR (Live Online) During this live, online course, a certified cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) instructor teaches parents and caregivers the basic steps of CPR and choking relief for infants up to 1 year old. Participants are asked to have on hand a doll or stuffed animal to use for practicing chest compressions alongside the instructor. This webinar is designed to provide an overview of the basic steps of infant CPR and choking. It is not a certification course. The course includes time to ask questions and have group discussion with the instructor. : $40 Sibling Class (Live Online) This one-hour webinar uses discussion and educational play to help children prepare for their new sibling. The class is designed for children age 3 and older. : $15 Starting Solids (Live Online) As your baby nears the sixth month of life, he or she approaches a major milestone: eating solid food. Learn what you need to know to feel confident when introducing your baby to solid foods. Baby and Me Yoga (Live Online) This 45-minute yoga session is for mothers and newborns between 6 weeks and 12 months of age. We practice gentle stretching, meditation, and breathing exercises to help moms build strength, balance, and flexibility. Moms also share parenting tips and experiences in a peaceful, relaxed environment. No Prenatal Yoga experience required. : $15 per session Learn and Play/New Baby & Parent Support Group (Live Online) This support group is for birthing parents with new babies to have the opportunity to meet and talk with others about their discoveries and experiences as a new parent. Most weeks there will be an opportunity to expand your baby’s and your own knowledge with scheduled guests and professionals, including but not limited to Baby Sign Language, dental health, Baby and Me Yoga, Baby Minds Activities, traveling with baby, and participant–requested topics. Registration for each session is required. : Free for those delivering at NYU Langone; $15 for general public Boot Camp for New Dads (Live Online) Boot Camp for New Dads is a workshop for fathers and other support persons of a birthing parents. During this three-hour class, our instructors discuss ways you can support support your partner through the childbirth experience, adjust to life with a newborn, and explore your new role as a father. If you prefer to learn at your own pace, or have limited time, consider our eClass : $65 Boot Camp for New Moms (Live Online) Boot Camp for New Moms is a unique workshop where moms-to-be get advice, insight, and tips on how to raise a baby. This 2.5-hour virtual session offers a judgment-free setting for expectant and new moms to discuss a variety of experiences about what happens in the early days after birth. The workshop shows that there’s no one “right” way. Breastfeeding Classes and Support Prenatal Breastfeeding Basics (Live Online) This 2.5-hour class for expectant mothers and their partner or another family member is taught by an International Board-Certified Lactation Consultant. Topics covered include the benefits of breastfeeding, proper positioning and attachment, maintaining milk supply, learning feeding cues, what to expect in the early weeks, and strategies to deal with early breastfeeding challenges. There will be opportunities for questions and answers. Partners and support persons are strongly encouraged to attend. : $80 Lactation 101: Breastfeeding in the Hospital (Recorded Link) As a follow-up to your prenatal breastfeeding class, please watch this video to review the process of early breastfeeding in the hospital and what to expect after giving birth. This guide to basic breastfeeding information will help get you and your baby off to the right start. Pumping 101 (Live Online) This live, 90-minute class, taught by a board-certified lactation consultant, is for those who want to learn more about pumping breast milk for their baby. Topics include how to choose the right pump to meet your needs, how to combine breastfeeding and pumping, when and how to pump, techniques to effectively express your milk, best practices for storage and handling of breast milk, and more. There will be ample time for questions and answers at the end of the session. Telehealth Lactation Consultations During this 60-minute, one-on-one online session, an international board-certified lactation consultant evaluates the breastfeeding relationship and addresses your questions and concerns. At the end of the session, you receive a personalized care plan to help you reach your breastfeeding goals. All sessions take place through your . If you are a patient at NYU Langone and do not have a MyChart account, you can create an account . We also recommend that you download the to access your MyChart account from your mobile device. To schedule virtual lactation video visit, please email your request to , with the subject line: Lactation Consultation Request. Please include your full name, baby’s name, baby’s date of birth, and your phone number in your email. : Visits are covered by most insurance plans. Check with your insurance plan to ensure there is no out-of-pocket expense. Breastfeeding Café (Live Online) This online support group offers new mothers who have newborns to six-month-olds the opportunity to provide each other with encouragement and feedback on breastfeeding. The session is in a question-and-answer format. Registration for each session is required. Breastfeeding Café Grande (Live Online) This online group offers breastfeeding support and encouragement to mothers of babies 4 months of age and older. Finding Balance: Breastfeeding and Returning to Work (Live Online) Taught by a lactation consultant, this 90-minute class is for mothers who are preparing to return to work and want to keep breastfeeding. We recommend you take this class at least one month before your maternity leave ends. We have locations and programs throughout New York City. 718-630-7942 Family Health Centers Adult Medicine Program Behavioral Health Program Community-Based Programs Early Childhood Services Youth & Adolescent Services Community Development Programs Family Strengthening Services Older Adult Services Pediatric Health Program Rehabilitation Program School Health Program Women’s Health Leadership & Board of Trustees The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, founded in 1967, has grown to become one of the largest Federally Qualified Health Center networks in the nation. We are home to the largest dental residency program in the country, the largest school health program in New York, and with more than 100,000 patients, our network handles 600,000 doctor’s visits each year. The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone is a community-based program that provides high-quality primary and preventive outpatient care to adults and children regardless of their ability to pay or health insurance status. Family Health Centers Provides Backpacks for Students Family Health Centers Receives Grant for Overdose Prevention EMT Training Program Opens Door to Careers in Healthcare Our organization is dedicated to providing the highest-quality care through evidence-based practices. This means that our treatments and procedures are guided by the latest and most reliable findings in the medical field. We have received  Magnet recognition for excellence in nursing from the American Nurses Credentialing Center. This achievement is considered the gold standard of nursing care, and reflects our ongoing commitment to providing the highest level of quality and safety to our patients. Learn more by reading our 50th Anniversary Report to the Community and watching our video. VIDEO: The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone offers healthcare and community-based services to adults and children throughout Brooklyn. Services We Provide Our network of Brooklyn-based community health centers includes 9 primary care and specialty sites, more than 50 school-based health and dental clinics, and a wide array of social support services for adults, children, and families. We provide access to the following services: primary and specialty care for adults obstetrics and women’s health services pediatric care dental care behavioral and mental health services school-based health programs provide children access during the school day to medical, dental, and vision care, as well as behavioral health services. provide job training for adults youth development opportunities early childhood programs programs for older adults . The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone also operate community medicine clinics that provide access to primary healthcare services to people who are dealing with homelessness and transitional living issues. Careers at the Family Health Centers Learn about healthcare-related jobs, including jobs for dentists, nurses, and physicians. View Our Job Opportunities Family Health Centers at NYU Langone is a Health Center Program grantee under 42 U.S.C. 254b, and a deemed Public Health Service employee under 42 U.S.C. 233(g)-(n) and a member of the National Health Service Corps. This health center receives Health and Human Services (HHS) funding and has Federal Public Health Service (PHS) deemed status with respect to certain health or health-related claims, including medical malpractice claims, for itself and its covered individuals. Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides a welcoming environment to all regardless of race, color, sex, national origin, disability, religion, sexual orientation, or ability to pay. We provide for people who cannot pay for their medical care through a sliding scale fee discount program. We accept most major insurance plans, including Medicaid and Medicare. Clinic Locations Family Physician Family Health Center at NYU Langone Flatbush Family Health Center at NYU Langone Park Ridge Family Health Center at NYU Langone Park Slope Family Health Center at NYU Langone Red Hook Family Health Center at NYU Langone Seventh Avenue Family Health Center at NYU Langone Sunset Park Family Health Center at NYU Langone—55th Street Sunset Park Family Health Center at NYU Langone—Second Avenue Sunset Terrace Family Health Center at NYU Langone We are a leader in stroke and trauma care and the hospital of choice in Brooklyn. Community Medicine Program—NYU Langone Family Health Centers We provide medical care to people who are homeless or living in transitional housing. Dental Medicine—NYU Langone Family Health Centers We provide dental care to adults and children through our community-based and school-based programs. Services for Older Adults Transportation Program Learn more about civil rights complaints and how to file a complaint related to our provision of transportation services for older adults. View More Information Dr. Glenn Saxe Has a Mission to Help Children Escape Trauma New Requirements Impact Medicaid-Eligible Patients Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Expands into Red Hook Affirming Our Commitment to Providing Exceptional Care Four New In-School Dental Programs Open in Queens Good Grades Start with Good Vision Maternal & Child Healthcare in Brooklyn Earns Top Marks NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Earns Top Nursing Recognition $5M Grant Helps Launch Mental Illness Program in Brooklyn Electroconvulsive Therapy Program at Inpatient Psychiatry at Tisch Hospital provides inpatient and outpatient to people who need treatment for , and other mood disorders. ECT is most often used as a treatment for people with a condition that is severe or has not responded to medication. During the procedure, you receive general anesthesia and are unconscious, so there is no discomfort. A small amount of electricity is used to trigger a seizure that lasts only 30 to 90 seconds. The seizure improves the symptoms of depression in most patients. Each ECT session lasts 10 to 15 minutes, although you will need extra time to prepare and then recover from the procedure. We recommend you allot at least two hours for each session. Treatments are given three times a week for two to four weeks. Most patients experience improvement in symptoms after 6 to 12 sessions. Preparing for Electroconvulsive Therapy Our experts evaluate each patient seen through our Electroconvulsive Therapy Program to ensure that ECT is the right treatment for your symptoms and condition. We talk with you about your medical history and perform a psychiatric evaluation. Our doctors order tests, including blood tests, an echocardiogram, and neuroimaging if necessary. These tests are performed to ensure you are medically cleared for treatment. Most people can safely receive ECT treatment, including older adults and pregnant women. During your initial ECT consultation, we encourage you and your family members to ask questions about the procedure and what to expect. Treatments can start while you are part of our inpatient psychiatry program, or, if advised by your doctor, you can begin as an outpatient. If you are an outpatient, you need to have someone available to bring you home after each treatment. Electroconvulsive therapy is a medical procedure that requires sedation, so we ask that you not eat anything after midnight the day before your scheduled appointment. For more information about our ECT program, please call 212-263-7419 Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s & Movement Disorders 212-263-4838 212-263-4837 At the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone, our mission is to advance treatment, education, and research for . We take a humanistic, empathetic, and compassionate approach to care, which emphasizes the person, rather than the disease. Fresco Institute team works closely with you and your family to develop customized treatment plans that fit your goals. We aim to provide the best treatments to control your symptoms and enhance your quality of life, while helping to connect you and your family to innovative programs in the community. The Fresco Institute is also committed to to improve our understanding of the nature of Parkinson’s disease and related movement disorders. Researchers are actively investigating ways to better address symptoms and improve treatment options. Among these innovative treatments are experimental medications tested in clinical trials, new forms of , and groundbreaking noninvasive treatments, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation. The Fresco Institute is proud to be a Parkinson’s Foundation Center of Excellence since 2009 and to be a leader in Parkinson’s disease care. The Fresco Institute, originally named the NYU Langone Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Center, was founded in 2007 with the generous support of the Edmond J. Safra Philanthropic Foundation. Our physicians are leaders in diagnosing and treating patients with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders. Steven J. Frucht Parkinson's & Movement Disorders Specialist Un J. Kang Nora L. Chan Patrick Drummond Xavier Guell Paradis Rebecca Lalchan Claire Miller Giulietta M. Riboldi Betsy Thomas Patient Resources Neuroscience Institute The Fresco Institute is proud to partner with NYU Langone’s Neuroscience Institute, which conducts research into neurological conditions, such as Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, and Alzheimer’s disease. We provide people with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders with occupational and physical therapy, rehabilitation psychology, and speech–language therapy through NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation. We are dedicated to training healthcare professionals and to advancing groundbreaking research into the causes and treatments of Parkinson's disease and movement disorders. Our Newsletter Read news from the Fresco Institute. Email parkinsons@nyulangone.org to subscribe. View New Patient Intake Questionnaire Grant Awarded to Study Alzheimer’s & Parkinson’s via the Eye NYU Langone Health is committed to delivering the highest standard of care to the diverse communities we treat. When you share your race, ethnicity, and preferred language, we get to know more about you and your community. This helps us as we continue to work together to achieve the best health outcomes for all. What is the difference between race and ethnicity? NYU Langone is an international and diverse community with staff members from many countries and ethnicities. Race refers to how a person identifies with one or more social groups. Ethnicity is more specific and gives us more information. It refers to social groups with a shared history, identity, and culture. Why should I answer these questions? You can choose to answer questions about how you identify socially. You do not have to answer every question. However, answering all the questions helps your care team better meet your unique health needs. If I choose not to answer these questions, will this affect my medical care? Your medical care will not be affected in any way by your decision not to answer these questions. How do you use this information? We look at the patterns of information from our electronic health records. This helps us identify ways to improve how we provide you with the best possible care. We also use this information to teach our clinical teams and ensure equitable care to all of our patients. Will the information I provide affect my health insurance coverage? No. Your answers to these questions will not affect your insurance coverage or medical care. How can I update my personal details? To update your information, log in to your and select “Account Settings” at the bottom of the menu. Click “Personal Information.” How can I be sure that this information will not be used to discriminate against me? The policy of NYU Langone Health and the is to provide care, treatment, and services free from discrimination related to race, color, national origin, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or parental status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, religion, socioeconomic status, or any other category protected by law. Where is my information stored? We use Epic, an electronic health record system, to process and store patient information. You can access your personal health information and medical records through your . Or you can access them by using the . Download our app and sign in with your NYU Langone Health MyChart username and password to stay connected to your care. If you do not have a MyChart account, you can How do I know my information is secure? All patient information collected by NYU Langone Health is protected by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). This federal law ensures that patient health information (PHI) is not shared without your consent or knowledge. Examples of PHI include your name, address, phone number, Social Security number, medical records, and financial information. We offer several convenient parking options for patients and visitors at many of our midtown Manhattan locations. Download our midtown Manhattan public parking map At NYU Langone, we provide you with individualized care targeted to your treatment goals. This approach includes allowing you to choose who can make decisions for you in the event you are unable to do so for yourself. This process, called advance care planning, is a key component of our patient-focused approach to care. Life is unpredictable, and our goal is to ensure that your wishes regarding the type and extent of medical treatment you receive are fulfilled. Advance care planning has four basic components. To get started, download our Advance Care Planning guide , which can help you get down your thoughts and share them with others. The guide is also available in Step 1: Consider your wishes for future care. Step 2: Select a healthcare agent—it can be a family member, friend, or anyone you trust. They act on your behalf should your doctor determine that you are unable to make your own healthcare decisions. Then, have a conversation with that person to explain what matters most to you. Step 3: Fill out the healthcare proxy form , which is also available in , and in additional languages through New York State’s Department of Health website . The healthcare proxy is an advance directive that designates that person as your healthcare agent and outlines your wishes. The healthcare proxy form gives you the opportunity to share instructions related to specific medical treatments. For example, you can let your healthcare agent know if you would want certain treatments or procedures, such as breathing assistance if you become unable to breathe on your own or dialysis if your kidneys fail. You can also indicate your preference regarding organ donation Some people who are seriously ill or frail may also choose to complete a Medical Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment (MOLST) form. This document indicates whether you want an attempt at resuscitation should your heart or breathing suddenly stop. The MOLST form also allows you to make other important decisions, and when signed by a provider it becomes a medical order that is valid in all healthcare settings and at home. At NYU Langone Health we provide the electronic version of MOLST for your convenience. Once these forms are completed, they can be updated at any time. This includes changing the person you select to be your healthcare agent. Your healthcare agent is only consulted if your doctor determines you are medically incapable of making your own healthcare decisions. Your healthcare choices always remain yours to make, provided you are medically able to do so. Step 4: Share your wishes for future care with your loved ones, providers and anyone else you feel should know your preferences. Upcoming Events We have a series of virtual webinars that are open to the public and available through Zoom. Thursday, January 16, 2025 3:00–4:00PM Zoom Meeting ID: 989 0083 5533 Zoom Passcode: 121465 Advance Care Planning: Considerations for Patients with Developmental Disabilities Wednesday, March 5, 2025 11:00AM–12:00PM Zoom Meeting ID: 984 5683 9265 Zoom Passcode: 827700 Monday, May 19, 2025 2:00–3:00PM Zoom Meeting ID: 985 3103 9850 Zoom Passcode: 947442 We understand that these are tough decisions to make and difficult conversations to have. However, expressing your wishes to your loved ones benefits everyone. You get the respect you deserve, and your loved ones have the reassurance of knowing they made the decisions that were in line with your wishes. Our staff can help you have these conversations and can answer any questions you have about the process. Please contact us at 212-263-0416 AdvanceCarePlanning@NYULangone.org 646-501-7500 646-754-9593 Neuromyelitis Optica & MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment & Research Program MS Palliative Care Webinars Because affects each person differently, the team at NYU Langone’s Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center is dedicated to providing outstanding care that addresses each person’s individual experience living with the condition. Our team of MS experts works closely with you and your family to maximize your potential and minimize your symptoms. Through diagnostic testing and a neurological examination, we identify your type of multiple sclerosis and develop a personalized management plan aimed at halting the disease and alleviating symptoms. VIDEO: Dr. Lauren Krupp, director of the Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center, describes the evaluation, diagnosis, treatment, and services provided for people who have multiple sclerosis. We care for people with MS of all ages including children and adolescents through our A Team Approach to MS Care The MS Comprehensive Care Center team is committed to improving the lives of people with MS. Our neurologists, who are internationally recognized as leaders in MS care, create a personalized treatment plan that addresses all your needs. This can include medication plasma exchange . Nurses provide in-depth patient education and support on medication use, symptom management, and the effects of MS on the family. Our social worker offers one-on-one assessments and works with our psychologists to help with symptoms of , and other emotional reactions associated with MS. Multiple Sclerosis Care Get more details about how we diagnose MS and create treatment plans for our patients. are provided through NYU Langone’s . Psychologists and neuropsychologists focus on the cognitive aspects of MS. We also work with a urologist who specializes in treating people with bladder issues associated with MS. In addition, experts at the MS Comprehensive Care Center offer a variety of specialized groups, for people living with MS—and their families and friends—to help them cope with the disease and its symptoms, and to stay informed about scientific progress. MS Research and Education We are at the forefront of into new treatments for MS. Our goal is to find therapies that maximize function and cure MS. While other MS centers concentrate primarily on drug research, our center is equally focused on studying nonpharmaceutical treatments for MS. Our experts are leading the way in deﬁning state-of-the-art care for the daily symptoms people with MS face, such as fatigue, cognitive difﬁculties, pain, and mood disruption. We are also educating tomorrow’s healthcare professionals in the fight against MS through our multiple sclerosis fellowship in clinical care and research. MS Clinical Trials If you are interested in participating in a clinical trial to help evaluate new treatments for MS, please contact our research hotline at 646-501-7511 In addition to our main location at 240 East 38th Street in Manhattan, our doctors see patients at Perlmutter Cancer Center—Huntington . Care is provided by our world-renowned MS experts, as well as neurology fellows who are specifically trained in MS care. We are designated as a Center for Comprehensive Multiple Sclerosis Care by the New York chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. For more information about adult services or to make an appointment, please call Our team offers people with MS and their families a wide array of medical treatments and symptom management. Lauren B. Krupp Nada G. Abou-Fayssal Vito P. Arena Lauren Brandes Multiple Sclerosis Specialist Robert W. Charlson Leigh E. Charvet Malcolm H. Gottesman Josef M. Gutman Jonathan E. Howard Mihir Kakara Marshall J. Keilson Ilya Kister Kimberly A. O'Neill Mirza Omari Tyler E. Smith Robyn Wolintz Joshua H. Bacon Search more than 4,000 doctors and schedule an appointment online. Special Services Primary Care Services Our doctors partner with you to help you reach your wellness goals and treat illnesses that arise. From X-rays to MRI scans, we offer imaging services throughout the New York area. We provide emergency care for adults and children at several specialized locations. We offer urgent care for non-emergency medical concerns that need care as soon as possible. Find a Doctor by Specialty Select a specialty to view all doctors and schedule an appointment. Acupuncturists Allergists Allergy & Infectious Disease Doctors Audiologists Autonomic Disorder Specialists Bariatric Surgeons Bone Marrow Transplant Doctors Breast Cancer Surgeons Breast Oncologists Breast Plastic Surgeons Cancer Rehabilitation Specialists Cardiac Electrophysiologists Cardio-Oncologists Cardio-Rheumatologists Adult Congenital Heart Disease Doctors Heart Failure Doctors Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Doctors Interventional Cardiologists Pediatric Cardiologists Child & Adolescent Psychiatrists Child & Adolescent Psychologists Children's Nutritionists Clinical Neurophysiologists Colorectal Surgeons Cornea Specialists Cosmetic Plastic Surgeons Dementia & Alzheimer's Specialists Dentists Dermatologic Surgeons Dermatologists Autoimmune Dermatologists Cosmetic Dermatologists Hair Loss Dermatologists Melanoma Dermatologists Onco-Dermatologists Pediatric Dermatologists Skin Allergy Doctors Skin of Color Dermatologists Developmental & Behavioral Pediatricians Diabetes Specialists Endocrine Surgeons Bone Health Doctors Lipidologists Pediatric Endocrinologists Reproductive Endocrinologists Thyroid Doctors Transgender Endocrinologists Epilepsy Doctors Epilepsy Surgeons Exercise Physiologists Family Medicine Specialists Family Planning Specialists Forensic Psychiatrists Gastroenterologists Advanced Endoscopy Specialists Esophagus Doctors Hepatologists Inflammatory Bowel Disease Doctors Pediatric Gastroenterologists Gastrointestinal Oncologists Gender Affirming Surgeons General Surgeons Genitourinary Oncologists Geriatricians Glaucoma Specialists Gynecologic Oncologists Gynecologists Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Doctors Maternal-Fetal Medicine Specialists Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgeons Obstetricians Urogynecologists Hand Plastic Surgeons Head & Neck Oncologists Headache Specialists Hematologists Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgeons Infectious Disease Specialists Internists Interventional Pulmonologists Interventional Spine Specialists Kidney Stones Specialists Laryngologists Medical Oncologists Melanoma Specialists Musculoskeletal Oncologists Neuro-Oncologists Pediatric Hematologist-Oncologists Pediatric Neuro-oncologists Surgical Oncologists Thoracic Oncologists Urologic Oncologists Midwife Specialists Multiple Sclerosis Specialists Neonatologists Nephrologists Neuro-Ophthalmologists Neuro-Otologists Neurologic Physical Therapists Neurological Occupational Therapists Neurological Speech Pathologists Neurologists Clinical Neuropsychologists Neurogeneticists Neuromuscular Specialists Parkinson's & Movement Disorders Specialists Pediatric Epilepsy Doctors Pediatric Neurologists Sleep Medicine Doctors Vascular Neurologists Neuropsychiatrists Skull Base Surgeons Spine Surgeons Nutritionists Obesity Doctors Hand Therapists Pediatric Hand Therapists Pediatric Occupational Therapists Oculoplastic Surgeons Ophthalmologists Optometrists Pediatric Ophthalmologists Pediatric Optometrists Retinal Specialists Strabismus Specialists Uveitis Specialists Vitreoretinal Surgeons Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeons Orthopedic Rehabilitation Specialists Orthopedic Surgeons Foot & Ankle Surgeons Hand & Wrist Surgeons Hip & Knee Reconstruction Specialists Orthopedic Trauma Surgeons Orthoplastic Surgeons Pediatric Orthopedic Surgeons Podiatrists Shoulder & Elbow Surgeons Sports Medicine Specialists Sports Orthopedic Surgeons Otolaryngologists Cochlear Implant Audiologists Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgeons Head & Neck Surgeons Otologist & Neurotologists Pediatric Otolaryngologists Rhinologists Speech Pathologists Swallowing Specialists Pain Management Doctors Palliative Care Doctors Pediatric Allergist & Immunologists Pediatric Cardiac Surgeons Pediatric Hand Surgeons Pediatric Hepatologists Pediatric Infectious Disease Doctors Pediatric Nephrologists Pediatric Neuropsychologists Pediatric Neurosurgeons Pediatric Pelvic Floor Therapists Pediatric Physiatrists Pediatric Physical Therapists Pediatric Plastic Surgeons Pediatric Pulmonologists Pediatric Rheumatologists Pediatric Schroth Therapists Pediatric Speech Therapists Pediatric Surgeons Pediatric Urologists Pediatric Vestibular Therapists Pediatricians Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Specialists Lymphedema Therapists Pelvic Floor Therapists Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapists TMJ Physical Therapists Vestibular Physical Therapists Work Conditioning Therapists Orthodontists Reconstructive Plastic Surgeons Wound Care Specialists Preventive Cardiologists Psychiatrists Psychosomatic Medicine Doctors Pulmonary Hypertension Specialists Pulmonologists Radiation Oncologists Rheumatologists Gout Specialists Lupus Doctors Psoriatic Arthritis Rheumatologists Pediatric Feeding & Swallowing Therapists Sports Nutrition Specialists Thoracic Surgeons Toxicologists Transplant Pulmonologists Transplant Surgeons Urologists Andrologists Endourologists Genitourinary Reconstructive Surgeons Vascular Surgeons Vulvar Disease Specialists View All Specialties 212-263-7721 Neuro-ophthalmologists at NYU Langone are vastly experienced in diagnosing and treating all neuro-ophthalmologic conditions, including conditions affecting the vision nerves, brain vision pathways, and eye movements. The conditions we treat for vision disorders include optic neuritis, ischemic optic neuropathy, optic nerve problems related to tumors, hereditary optic nerve disorders, pseudotumor cerebri, double vision, and nystagmus. If you are experiencing one of these conditions, you may have symptoms such as vision loss or double vision. Neuro-ophthalmologist Dr. Laura Balcer and neurologist Dr. Steven Galetta examine scans on a computer. Our physicians are highly skilled in diagnosing the underlying cause of these symptoms. Our doctors are also actively involved in research related to vision nerve problems and abnormal eye movements in , and other neurological conditions. Our team of neuro-ophthalmologists cares for adolescents and adults who are experiencing problems with vision and the central nervous system. Nancy Blace Steven L. Galetta Doria M. Gold Scott N. Grossman Melody Merati The expert team at NYU Langone’s Concussion Center provides the medical and rehabilitation support you need to recover from a head injury. Specialists at NYU Langone’s Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center diagnose and treat individuals with multiple sclerosis. NYU Langone Orthopedic Second Opinion Service Orthopedic Second Opinion Get a Second Opinion No. 1 in Quality & Safety Nationally recognized for providing the highest-quality care and having the best patient outcomes. 20,000 Surgeries Each Year As one of the highest volume centers in the United States, we’re in a unique position to improve patient outcomes. Perhaps your doctor has told you that you need surgery, or you have an orthopedic injury or condition that reoccurs even after treatment. Navigating healthcare issues like these can be challenging and time consuming. When you have questions or concerns about your medical condition or treatment plan, a second opinion can help you make informed decisions about your care. Create an account to get your second opinion from an NYU Langone expert. Request a Second Opinion NYU Langone’s online second opinion service gives you convenient access to the expertise and guidance of our renowned orthopedic surgeons. As one of the top-ranked orthopedic programs in the country, our specialists care for tens of thousands of people each year, providing the most advanced and innovative treatment. Our surgeons are experts in all areas of orthopedic care, from joint replacements and bone fractures to spinal disorders and sports injuries. Our orthopedic surgeons review your medical records and provide a personalized second opinion report to you and your treating physician. A second opinion can confirm your diagnosis and treatment plan, or provide different recommendations that you can review and discuss with your doctor. Get a Second Opinion Online You can get an online orthopedic second opinion without leaving home or traveling for an in-person visit with a specialist. We collect your medical information for your second opinion and send the report through our secure online portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart. Here are the steps: Sign up for an NYU Langone Health MyChart account to get your second opinion. Tell us about your condition and provide your relevant medical records, imaging exams, and contact information for one of your treating physicians. After receiving your information, the coordinator follows up to confirm your submission is complete. An NYU Langone expert reviews your information and prepares your second opinion report. We select the doctor who specializes in your condition to provide your second opinion. You can ask this expert to answer specific questions about your condition and treatment plan and get detailed responses. Our coordinator can help guide you through the second opinion process, and with gathering your medical information for the expert to review. After receiving your information, the coordinator follows up within three business days to confirm that your submission is complete. If additional information is needed, the coordinator can work with you to gather and provide the necessary information. Your second opinion report is usually ready within five business days after receipt of your completed submission. If you have questions or to contact the coordinator, please call 646-878-1888 Orthopedic Second Opinion Cost The cost of an orthopedic second opinion is $800. This fee includes: a review of your medical records and imaging exams an expert evaluation of your case by an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon a detailed written report You can ask the expert to answer up to five questions in your second opinion report. You provide these questions along with your medical information for the expert to review. Payment is due when you submit your information. Most insurance plans do not cover the cost of a second opinion, and we are unable to provide a Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code. However, you may be able to use a flexible spending account (FSA) or health savings account (HSA) to pay for the second opinion. If we are unable to provide a second opinion for any reason, we refund your payment. After you receive your second opinion report, if you wish, we can help you schedule a visit with the specialist who provided your second opinion. This appointment is separate from the second opinion service and is not included in the cost of your second opinion. Imaging and Medical Information Requirements To ensure we have the right information to provide a thorough review, you need to gather your relevant medical records from your treating doctor and be prepared to submit them. This includes imaging studies, a copy of your operative report if you had surgery, a copy of your discharge summary if you were hospitalized, a summary of your doctor’s current treatment plan, and a list of all your medications. To get a second opinion, you must provide the imaging exams used to diagnosis your injury or condition, such as X-rays, MRIs, CT scans, or ultrasounds. Our secure portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart, allows you to upload and submit these imaging studies along with your information for your second opinion. Please use MyChart on a laptop or personal computer, instead of a phone or tablet. This provides the best experience and ensures you have access to all features in MyChart. NYU Langone’s Orthopedic Second Opinion Service does not create a physician–patient relationship between you and the NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon who rendered your second opinion. To get a second opinion, you must provide the contact information for a physician whose care you are currently under. NYU Langone will send a copy of the second opinion report to this doctor. You review the second opinion and decide whether to discuss it with your treating physician or another doctor of your choosing. Online Second Opinion Availability You must be age 18 or older to be eligible for NYU Langone’s online second opinion service. We are not currently able to offer this online service outside the United States, or in the following states: Alabama, Alaska, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Carolina, and Wyoming. If you would prefer an in-person visit with an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon, you can browse our list of doctors By completing the process to request a second opinion and submitting payment, you acknowledge and agree to the above terms and conditions. Take Control of Your Healthcare with a Second Opinion We offer at-home sessions through the NYU Langone Health app. 929-455-5126 Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a type of noninvasive brain stimulation that can be used in the treatment of certain conditions. tDCS is used in different ways depending on the condition and treatment goal. For instance, it can help recovery from cognitive, motor, or speech and language problems from neurological disorders like , dementia, and head injury. In this approach, tDCS is used together with cognitive, motor, or speech and language exercises to “boost” the recovery process. Another common use of tDCS is for the treatment of . Daily sessions can have a cumulative benefit that many people find effective in improving their mood, cognitive difficulties, and ability to be physically active. In 2019, NYU Langone launched its innovative tDCS Program, which provides a way for people to receive this treatment at home. Our tDCS sessions, which are tailored to your individual needs and therapeutic goals, take place through video visits in the . Our team has more than a decade of experience studying tDCS as a home-based treatment. Using state-of-the art medical grade tDCS systems, our procedures ensure that your tDCS treatment is safe and well-tolerated. Learn more about the tDCS clinical program team. What to Expect During tDCS Treatment Each tDCS treatment session takes place by video visit and is supervised by an NYU Langone technician. During the session you wear a comfortable headset fitted with electrodes that rest on your scalp. A low-grade electric current flows through the electrodes while you engage in a therapeutic activity designed to treat your condition. These activities may include cognitive rehabilitation games, speech and language training, physical therapy exercises, or psychological interventions such as mindfulness meditation. Depending on the condition being treated, tDCS is used to either increase or decrease brain activity in the region where the current is directed. Each at-home session typically lasts 30 minutes. We generally recommend a minimum of 10 daily sessions to evaluate if you are experiencing benefits. “The first day I tried tDCS, I started crying while doing my balance exercises—I couldn’t believe how well I was doing. Over the first week of treatment, everything I was working on improved significantly—both my vision therapist and my vestibular therapist were over the moon about my progress.” M. Archer Prior to the initial video visit, our team sends you all the equipment, including a custom headset. During a virtual intake visit we show you how to use the equipment and discusses your individual treatment plan. tDCS is not currently covered by insurance, but your initial visit may be reimbursable. Our program offers bundled sessions to reduce the cost per session and the equipment is loaned to you as part of treatment. Our Research and Clinical Trials If you are a doctor or other provider and would like to refer a patient to the tDCS Program, please call 929-455-5126. Researchers at NYU Langone lead the field in developing the use of tDCS and other emerging technologies to manage a range of cognitive, motor, and psychological symptoms and improve quality of life for the people who experience them. Learn more about our research efforts In addition, members of our team conduct designed to determine additional conditions that may benefit from tDCS. We may discuss whether it is appropriate for you to participate in one of these trials. For questions about our tDCS program or to learn whether it may be beneficial for you, call 929-455-5126. If you are a neurologist, psychiatrist, psychologist, physical or occupational therapist, speech–language pathologist, or other provider and would like to refer a patient, please call 929-455-5126. Experts at the tDCS Program offer at-home, customizable sessions, scheduled at your convenience. NYU Langone Launches Virtual Brain Stimulation Program NYU Langone Military Family Center We support veterans and military families in the New York City area. 855-698-4677 Military Family Center Our Programs & Services At the NYU Langone Military Family Center, we provide free, compassionate care for veterans and military families who are experiencing the long-term effects of all phases of military service and other life stresses, including relationship difficulties, school problems, and unemployment and relocation issues. Veterans Crisis Line This nationwide, toll-free hotline connects veterans and service members in crisis and their loved ones with information and qualified Department of Veterans Affairs responders. For more information, call 800-273-8255 Learn More About the Veterans Crisis Line We welcome veterans, including anyone who has served in the United States Armed Services, regardless of role, discharge status, or combat experience, as well as members of the National Guard and Reserve. We also extend our services to the parents, siblings, spouses and partners, children, caretakers, and other family members of active-duty personnel, veterans, and members of the National Guard or Reserve. We offer high-quality, accessible, and integrated mental healthcare. Our free, confidential services are available in-person or through our Telemental Health Program. For patients in New York and Connecticut, these online sessions are offered through the . The confidential platform allows our mental health professionals to provide personalized care to military veterans and family members who prefer to work with their care team remotely or at flexible times. We do not share people’s confidential information with the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs or any other public, private, or government entities unless required by law or with written permission. We comply with federal guidelines set by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Former Marine Corps captain Lamar Winslow talks about receiving care at the NYU Langone Military Family Center after experiencing symptoms of stress related to his military service. Our center hours are Monday through Thursday from 9:00AM to 8:00PM and Friday from 9:00AM to 6:00PM. We are closed on weekends and holidays. For more information about our services or to schedule an appointment, please call MilitaryFamilyClinic@NYULangone.org , which include individual, couples, and family therapy, medication management, and psychiatric evaluation. If you need immediate assistance, please contact the Veterans Crisis Line at . This confidential crisis support is available for veterans and their families 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Thank You The NYU Langone Military Family Center’s services are supported by generous funding from the Home Depot Foundation, the New York State Health Foundation, and the New York City Council. Honor Veterans by Looking After Their Mental Health 2021 ‘Mental Health Power 50’ Lists Two NYU Langone Experts Can Herbs & Other Supplements Treat Depression? Experts Provide Helpful Tips to Manage Holiday Stress Helping Veterans Cope with Mental Health Issues Military Family Clinic Celebrates Milestone Military Family Clinic Strengthens Mental Health Partnership Veterans Find Help at the Steven A. Cohen Military Family Clinic Searching for Better Ways to Diagnose & Treat Veterans , we offer neuropalliative care aimed at improving the quality of life of our patients facing serious neurologic illnesses. Our primary goal is to ensure you feel supported, so we provide personalized care that aligns with your unique needs and preferences. Our team of experts specialize in patient-focused service and provide supportive care that empowers you to navigate your journey with confidence. We focus on managing symptoms, planning medical decisions in advance, and improving quality of life—always in alignment with your expressed wishes. The neuropalliative care service is led by Dr. Eileen J. Harrigan , one of only a handful of neuropalliative care doctors in the tri-state area applying the principles of palliative care to neurological illness. Our dedicated team of healthcare professionals is skilled in treating a wide range of serious neurologic conditions. These include, but are not limited to the following: of any kind, including and related disorders brain tumors amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and related conditions genetic neurologic diseases other serious neurologic illnesses Our treatment approach is as comprehensive as it is compassionate. Our offerings include the following: pain control symptom treatment transitioning to care that prioritizes quality of life As part of the interdisciplinary team approach, a social worker provides psychosocial support to patients and caregivers to assist with coping and managing the illness. Additionally, our social worker completes a comprehensive needs assessment to coordinate appropriate services and resources in the community, which can be helpful in navigating a diagnosis. These resources are unique for each patient but may include the following: support groups for patients and/or care partners educational groups for specific neurologic conditions mental health resources home care services, whether through insurance or private pay coordination of in-home medical care and equipment social day programs exercise classes for specific neurologic conditions medication management systems future plananing, including elder law attorney resources, Medicaid resources, and assisted living and nursing home placement assistance with life transitions, such as a referral to hospice services and end-of-life care Our social worker builds strong, trusting relationships with patients and their families while being a source of guidance and support for those being impacted by a serious neurologic condition. If you or a loved one has been diagnosed with a serious neurologic illness and are interested in our neuropalliative care services, please call to schedule an appointment. Referring physicians can also call to refer patients for our neuropalliative care services. Our neuropalliative care services are supported by the Fan Fox and Leslie R Samuels Foundation, Inc. 212-263-7225 At NYU Langone’s Dysautonomia Center, our experts are committed to improving the quality of life for people with by bridging the gap between basic science and clinical medicine. Our team provides comprehensive and compassionate care to help patients manage the daily challenges of living with autonomic dysfunction. Your autonomic nervous system is comprised of a network of neurons that transmits information from the brain and spinal cord to your heart, bladder, gastrointestinal tract, sweat glands, blood vessels, sexual organs, and pupils of your eyes. For the most part, the autonomic nervous system is not under your voluntary control. Dysautonomia occurs when this system malfunctions. The condition can happen in several different disorders. Learn more about the types of autonomic disorders Our neurologists provide comprehensive care to people with autonomic disorders. Our Dysautonomia Center is a unique facility that welcomes both adults and children, along with family members and others who are involved in the care of patients with autonomic disorders. As one of the few centers in the world specializing in autonomic disorders—both genetic and non-genetic, or sporadic, types—we strive to provide our patients with the most up-to-date and accurate information on their condition, prognosis, and treatment options. For more than 40 years, our center has been supported by the Familial Dysautonomia Foundation, Inc We also have an autonomic disorders research program and laboratory . Our team has made a number of discoveries that have shaped our understanding of autonomic disorders, allowing us to bring new treatment options to people living with this condition. We perform laboratory research and clinical trials, and train medical experts. Making an Appointment We focus on the treatment of autonomic dysfunction as the result of hereditary diseases, such as familial dysautonomia and hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies, and neurodegenerative conditions, such as multiple system atrophy, , or neuropathies. If you fit this description, you may be evaluated at our outpatient clinic. Please ask your primary care physician to send you a referral letter, as well as your blood pressure readings and heart rate, measured while lying down and then standing. You must also complete our assessment forms regarding your symptoms and medical history that are sent to you upon contacting us. We ask that your physician send us a copy of your medical records by mail or fax. Medical records are not returned, so please do not send originals. After we receive this information, we contact you to discuss a possible visit to the clinic and a date for autonomic testing. What to Expect at Your First Appointment To ensure an efficient and effective visit, please make sure to bring the following materials to your first appointment or fax them before you arrive: copies of any CT scans, MRI scans, ultrasounds, or other imaging tests copies of any recent blood tests copies of sleep studies copies of autonomic tests copies of other relevant studies, such as Holter monitor, stress test, or blood pressure tests a list of all your current medications and their dosages On the day of your visit, you are asked to fill out additional questionnaires as well. During your visit, you meet with a Dysautonomia Center team member who asks you questions about your medical problem and performs a thorough physical and neurological examination. The information you provide and the results of the assessment are used to determine which autonomic tests are performed next. If you are eligible, you may be asked to sign a consent form to participate in our international registry for patients with autonomic disorders. All information is kept confidential. Our team has vast experience in diagnosing and providing treatment for the many disorders associated with autonomic dysfunction. Maria Alejandra Gonzalez-Duarte Briseno Autonomic Disorder Specialist Horacio Kaufmann The Highest Standard of Care At NYU Langone, we’re committed to providing the highest standard of care for you—and every day, we strive to set those standards even higher. After heart surgery, we get our patients home sooner than other hospitals—four days sooner for adult patients and four weeks sooner for pediatric patients. We have the highest success rates for adult heart surgery in the country and the highest success rates for pediatric heart surgery in New York. We also have the highest lung transplant success rates in New York, and we get our patients off the organ waitlist five-times faster than other hospitals. We bring this same standard of care to every interaction you have with us—from check-ups to emergency care to treating chronic health issues. Learn more about our High Standards for Healthcare Related Videos Reuniting Heart with Home Leaders in Lung Transplant Faster Stroke Care No. 1 in Brain Surgery. Any Way You Look At It. NYU Langone Virtual Urgent Care providers treat children ages 5 to 17 who are experiencing non-emergency conditions. in children include pink eye, diarrhea and vomiting, and fever. Virtual Urgent Care is available from early morning until midnight, seven days a week, for patients ages 5 and older. For children ages 4 and younger, please schedule an appointment with the child’s pediatrician via . You can also search for an NYU Langone pediatrician near you Scheduling for Children Ages 5 to 11 A parent or guardian must schedule an appointment for a child ages 5 to 11, and must also be present during the video visit. To make an appointment, you will need proxy access for your child’s NYU Langone MyChart account. If you do not have proxy access, please call for assistance with scheduling your child’s appointment. Scheduling for Youth Ages 12 to 17 People ages 12 to 17 can schedule their own appointments, or their parent or guardian can do it for them. Appointments scheduled by a parent or guardian require proxy access to their child’s MyChart account. If you do not have proxy access, please call for assistance with scheduling your child’s appointment. The parent or guardian is not required to be present for the visit. For More Information To receive assistance with scheduling a Virtual Urgent Care visit for a child or teen, please call Virtual Urgent Care Cost & Insurance Options Your insurance plan may cover the cost of a visit for you or your child. Virtual Urgent Care is available from early morning until midnight, 7 days a week, for patients ages 5 and older. It is your responsibility to verify that you have specific benefit coverage for telehealth services under your benefit plan. For plans we accept, we collect your out-of-pocket responsibility for an office visit at the time of check-in and bill your insurance for the remaining balance. If your insurance doesn’t cover the balance in full, you are billed for any remaining balance. Accepted Insurance Plans Aetna Aetna EPO (AMEX employees) AETNA EPO (NYULH Employees) Aetna HMO Aetna Indemnity Aetna International Aetna Medicare Advantage Aetna Open Access EPO Aetna Open Access HMO Aetna POS Aetna POS (American Express Employer) Aetna PPO Aetna Signature Administrators PPO Aetna Student Plan Allied Chesterfield Resources Inc Christian Brothers Services CoreSource Nippon Life of America—Aetna Nippon Life—Aetna Starmark WellNet Amida Care Amida Care Medicaid AnthemBCBSHealth Plus BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 1 BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 2 BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 3 BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 4 BCBS Healthplus Gatekeeper exchange BCBS Healthplus Mediblue Advantage BCBS Healthplus NY Child Health Plus NY BCBS Healthplus NY Medicaid Managed Care NY BCBS Healthplus Special Needs Empire Mediblue Healthplus Dual AnthemBlueCrossBlue Shield Anthem BCBS CT HMO Anthem BCBS CT Pathway HMO Anthem BCBS CT Pathway PPO Anthem BCBS CT PPO BCBS Blue Access EPO Large Group BCBS Blue Access EPO Small Group BCBS Blue Access GEPO Small Group BCBS Blue Access PPO Large Group BCBS EPO BCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS EPO (LICH Employees) BCBS Federal Program BCBS Florida Blue Select BCBS HMO BCBS Indemnity BCBS Local 32BJ Employees BCBS Mediblue Medicare HMO BCBS Mediblue Medicare PPO BCBS Mediblue Select HMO/Extra HMO BCBS POS BCBS PPO BCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS PPO/EPO Small Group BCBS PPO (LICH Employees) New York Hotel Trades Centerlight Healthcare CenterLight Healthcare DIRECT CenterLight Healthcare PACE CenterLight Healthcare Select Centerlight Pace Medicare HMO CentersPlanForHealthy Living Centers Plan For Healthy Living Centers Plan For Healthy Living Medicaid Advantage Plus HMO D-SNP Cigna Apwu Health Plan Cigna Great West PPO Cigna HMO Cigna - Humana Cigna Indemnity Cigna Managed Care/POS Cigna Medicare Advantage Cigna NALC Cigna Open Access Cigna Open Access PPO Cigna Oscar Cigna PPO Cigna Premier Plus Great West HMO Kaiser Permanente MVP-Cigna Network Wellfleet-NYU Student Connecticare Connecticare Bridge Connecticare Commercial Connecticare CT Commercial E Elderplan Elderplan FIDA Elderplan Medicare Advantage Plan Emblem Emblem Select Care Bronze Small Group Emblem Select Care EPO Emblem Select Care Gold Small Group Emblem Select Care HMO Emblem Select Care Platinum Small Group Emblem Select Care PPO Emblem Select Care Silver Small Group F Fidelis Ambetter Fidelis Care Bronze Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Catastrophic Cvg Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Gold Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Native American Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Platinum Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Silver Exchange Fidelis Care Child Health Plus Fidelis Care Medicaid Managed Care Fidelis Essential Plan 1 Fidelis Essential Plan 2 Fidelis Essential Plan 3 Fidelis Essential Plan 4 Wellcare by Fidelis Care Medicare Health First Health PPO G GHI American Plan Administrators GHI CBP (City of New York Employees) GHI Emblem Health EPO GHI Emblem Health PPO GHI HMO GHI HMO Medicare GHI Medicare PPO GHI Medicare Supplement GHI Network Access - Benefit Services of PA GHI Network Access - Humana GHI Network Access - Total Plan Concepts IUOE Local 14-14B Wlny-TV Inc. H Hamaspik Choice Hamaspik Choice Medicare DSNP Healthfirst Health And Recovery Plan (Harp) Healthfirst Bronze Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Bronze Total, Pro, Plus EPO Healthfirst Child Health Plus Healthfirst Essential Plan 1 & 2 Healthfirst Essential Plan 3 & 4 Healthfirst Gold Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Gold Total, Pro, Plus EPO Healthfirst Green Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Medicaid Healthfirst Medicare Healthfirst Medicare/NYU Risk Healthfirst Personal Wellness Plan Healthfirst Platinum Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Platinum Total, Pro, Plus EPO Healthfirst Silver Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Silver Total, Pro, Plus EPO Emblem Essential Plan 1 Emblem Essential Plan 2 Emblem Essential Plan 3 Emblem Essential Plan 4 HIP Access I HIP Access II HIP Bridge HIP Child Health Plus HIP EPO HIP HMO HIP Medicaid Enhanced Care HIP Medicare Supplement HIP POS HIP PPO HIP Prime Basic Exchange HIP Prime Bronze HIP Prime Bronze Exchange HIP Prime Catastrophic Exchange HIP Prime Gold HIP Prime Gold Exchange HIP Prime Platinum HIP Prime Platinum Exchange HIP Prime Silver HIP Prime Silver Exchange HIP VIP Medicare Prime Vytra HMO HotelTrades Council Hotel Trades Council Humana Humana Medicare Advantage L Local 1199 Local 1199 - NYU Hospital Member Choice Local 1199 PPO LongevityHealth Plan Longevity Health Plan Medicare M Magnacare Magnacare PPO MedicaidofNew York NYS Medicaid Medicare Medicare Part A and B Medicare Part B MetroPlusHealth MetroPlusHealthBronze Plus Plan Exchange MetroPlusHealth Child Health Plus MetroPlusHealth Essential Plan 1 and 2 MetroPlusHealth Essential Plan 3 and 4 MetroPlusHealth Gold MetroPlusHealth Gold Plus Plan Exchange MetroPlusHealth Goldcare MetroPlusHealth Medicaid Managed Care MetroPlusHealth Medicare MetroPlusHealth Platinum Plus Plan Exchange MetroPlusHealth Silver Plus Plan Exchange Multiplan Administrative Concepts AXA Assistance USA Beech Street PPO Diversified Administration Corporation Fiserv Health GEHA Global Excel Global Health Guardian Life Insurance Co Of America Health Net Of California Health Republic Of NJ Insurance Design Administrators Kaiser Foundation Meritain Health Multiplan PPO Multiplan—Capital Dist Phys Health Mutual Of Omaha Nippon Life Ins Co PHCS Professional Benefit Admin Qualcare Inc Screen Actors Guild Teamsters Allied Benefits US Life Insurance Company N NYSHIP-TheEmpire NYS Health Insurance Plan - The Empire Plan, Excelsior Plan, NY Student Employee Health Plan O Oxford Oxford Health Plans Freedom Oxford Health Plans Liberty Oxford Metro P PartnersHealthPlan Inc Partners Health Plan FIDA Partners Health Plan Medicaid Partners Health Plan Medicare POMCOInsurance Company POMCO Insurance Company Q Qualcare Inc. Qualcare Direct R Railroad Palmetto GBA Railroad Medicare RiverSpringHealth River Spring Medicare HMP SNP Sedgwick WTC World Trade Center - Sedgwick SeniorWhole Senior Whole Health Medicare Advantage T Tricare TriWest US Family Health Plan U United AARP Medicare Complete AARP Medicare Complete Mosaic Bind Benefits inc Oxford Health Plans Medicare Advantage UHC Medicare Complete Choice Regional PPO UMR United Health Care Charter United Healthcare AARP United Healthcare All Savers United Healthcare CareCore United Healthcare Choice United Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees) United Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees) United Healthcare Choice (CBS employees) United Healthcare Choice (Simon United Healthcare Compass Exchange United Healthcare EPO United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Golden Rule Insurance United Healthcare Healthscope United Healthcare HMO United Healthcare Indemnity United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Medicare United Healthcare Navigate United Healthcare Nexus United Healthcare Nexus (Amex Employees) United Healthcare (NY University Care Plan) United Healthcare NYU Care (NYULH Employees) United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare POS United Healthcare PPO United Healthcare Student Resources United Healthcare Student Resources (NYU) United Healthcare Value, Advantage and HDHP (New York University employees) UnitedHealthcare Choice (NY Power Authority Employees) V VACommunityCare Network VA CCN Optum Village VillageCare VNSChoice Advantage VNS Medicare Advantage VNS NY Choice Select Health W Wellcare WellCare Medicare WTCHealth NY Fire Department - WTC WTC Health Program Manual Verification Required These insurance plans cannot be verified electronically. After your visit is confirmed, you will need to call 877-698-2331 to speak with acustomer service representative who can verify your insurance plan Monday to Friday between 8:00AM to 7:00PM. Alternatively, you can also confirm with your insurance carrier if they cover Virtual Urgent Care visits. You may be charged the $126 self-pay fee if your insurance plan is not verified before your video visit. You can submit the receipt to your insurance carrier for reimbursement if eligible. Common Questions About Virtual Urgent Care service offers adults and children ages 5 and over same-day care for non-emergency medical concerns. A Virtual Urgent Care video visit takes place through the , which is accessed from your mobile phone, tablet, or computer. Here are some common questions about Virtual Urgent Care. How Do I Schedule a Virtual Urgent Care Appointment? Can I Have a Virtual Urgent Care Visit If I’m Not in New York? How Do I Make a Virtual Urgent Care Appointment for a Child? Services Provided Through Virtual Urgent Care Can Medications Be Prescribed? How Can I Obtain a Doctor’s Note for My Work or School? Accessing Virtual Urgent Care How Do I Connect to Virtual Urgent Care? How Do I Access Virtual Urgent Care with a Mobile Device? How Do I Access Virtual Urgent Care with a Computer? How Do I Cancel a Virtual Urgent Care Video Visit? What If I Experience Technical Issues? Follow-Up Care What If I Need Blood Work, Imaging Services, or Follow-Up Care After My Visit? What If I Have a Question After My Visit? You can make an appointment online through our website’s scheduling portal or through your or your child’s NYU Langone’s Virtual Urgent Care services are available to patients who are physically located in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Florida, and Nevada at the time of the visit. Anyone age 5 years or older can use Virtual Urgent Care. Adults must sign in using their own NYU Langone Health MyChart account. For children’s video visits, the parent or legal guardian’s NYU Langone Health MyChart account must be set up with healthcare proxy access to the child’s health record. If a parent or legal guardian does not already have an NYU Langone Health MyChart account, they receive an email or text with instructions on how to create an account after they have scheduled the appointment. If the parent or legal guardian does not already have healthcare proxy access to their child’s NYU Langone health record, they receive temporary access to complete the Virtual Urgent Care video visit. Your Virtual Urgent Care provider can prescribe medications as needed. Controlled substances and certain other medications cannot be prescribed during video visits. During your visit, let your Virtual Urgent Care provider know you need a note. After your visit, you can access the note from your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. If you already have an NYU Langone Health MyChart account, sign in to begin the check-in process. If you do not already have an account, you must create one. You will be prompted to create an account when you schedule your video visit. Having an NYU Langone Health MyChart account allows you to save time when scheduling your appointments with NYU Langone providers by securely storing your personal information, such as your medical history and current medication, in your NYU Langone health record. If you need a doctor’s note for your employer or school, NYU Langone Health MyChart allows you to print one at your convenience. We can also help you reset your username and password . For technical questions, please call us at If you want to use a mobile phone or tablet to access Virtual Urgent Care, first download the NYU Langone Health mobile app from the App Store . With the app installed, you can then log in to NYU Langone Health MyChart and grant access to your microphone and camera. Although it’s not required, we recommend that you connect to Wi-Fi for a better video visit experience and to limit your data usage. If you do not have access to Wi-Fi, you can connect to the Virtual Urgent Care video visit through your wireless carrier. You need a desktop or laptop computer with a working web camera, microphone, speakers, and high-speed internet connection to access Virtual Urgent Care with a computer. Recent versions of Google Chrome, Apple Safari, and Mozilla Firefox web browsers are compatible with this service. If you have trouble connecting, please call us at To cancel a visit, go to the appointment details page in your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. If you are late to a Virtual Urgent Care visit, we recommend that you cancel and reschedule for a later time. If your Virtual Urgent Care video gets disconnected, attempt to reconnect by logging back in to NYU Langone Health MyChart. For more information on troubleshooting your Virtual Urgent Care visit, please call us at If your Virtual Urgent Care provider recommends laboratory testing or an imaging exam, your provider enters an order into your . You can then schedule your test for a location of your choice. Your results can be found in your MyChart account, and we will contact you about any abnormal results. Learn more about scheduling imaging exams Appointments for and other respiratory tests—such as , strep, and throat culture—can be scheduled through the NYU Langone Health app. You can also complete your blood, urine, or stool laboratory tests at an NYU Langone location. If you prefer to use a non–NYU Langone location, please let your Virtual Urgent Care provider know. Your Virtual Urgent Care provider may refer you to your primary care doctor for follow-up care, or to your local emergency department if you need more immediate care. If you need a specialist, our providers can help you find an NYU Langone doctor in the New York area or in Florida. You can send a message to your Virtual Urgent Care provider through your NYU Langone Health MyChart account or call us at We have doctors in Manhattan and Queens. 877-615-4477 Our orthopedic specialists provide an integrated team approach to the evaluation and treatment of a wide range of hip disorders occurring in adults and children. At NYU Langone’s Hip Center, part of , our team includes pediatric and adult orthopedic surgeons with different subspecialty backgrounds, as well as therapists and radiologists who share a specific interest in disorders of the hip. This unique collaborative approach allows us to provide care for all hip conditions, whether they are developmental, traumatic, or degenerative, and to take a collaborative approach to each person’s situation. Patients with complex conditions affecting the hip and those who are candidates for surgery may be discussed in a team conference, during which we plan personalized treatment for each patient. Our services for children are provided through Our Specialties and Services Our specialists have vast experience diagnosing and treating a broad range of conditions affecting the hip, including the following: hip dysplasia , or shallow hip socket femoral–acetabular impingement (FAI) hip labrum tears osteoarthritis, including hip arthritis in young adults and post-traumatic arthritis sports hip and groin injuries sports hernias avascular necrosis of the hip fractures of the hip and pelvis , including fractures that are slow to heal snapping hip syndrome In recent years, many innovative surgical and nonsurgical options have become available for the treatment of hip disorders in adults and children. Our surgical and nonsurgical treatment options include the following: hip injections, including platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injections hip arthroscopy procedures for labrum tears and hip impingement hip and pelvis osteotomy, including Ganz Bernese osteotomy, also known as periacetabular osteotomy (PAO), for hip dysplasia core decompression and bone grafting for avascular necrosis of the hip We also specialize in minimally invasive, single-incision total hip replacements, such as anterior total hip replacement and robotic-assisted total hip replacement, which for many patients can be performed as an outpatient procedure. To schedule an appointment or to arrange a hospital transfer, call . You can also email us with any questions at nyhipcenter@nyulangone.org . Please allow 24 to 48 hours for a response from one of our physicians. Our skilled surgeons and radiologists provide specialized surgical and nonsurgical care for the treatment of all hip conditions. Thomas Youm Same-Day Hip Replacements May Offer Recovery at Home Hip Replacements Not Just for Grandparents Anymore Same Day Hip Replacement at NYU Langone Community Medicine Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone We have locations in Brooklyn and Manhattan. 347-377-3520 Community Medicine Program The care team at Community Medicine Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides healthcare to adults through several New York City homeless services locations. We meet the healthcare needs of the entire family through programs that focus on primary and specialized medical care, dentistry, and social support services. View All Family Health Centers , reaches people who otherwise would have limited access to healthcare. We provide primary and urgent care as well as vaccinations, women’s health services , and health education. We also offer behavioral health services including psychotherapy and psychiatric evaluation. In addition to our primary care services, we can connect our patients with doctors from more than 25 medical and surgical specialties substance use is available to residents of the shelter system and those who are formerly homeless and living in the city’s supportive housing. Services include group therapy, supportive therapy, and medication. We also provide referrals and navigation services to help people enter detox programs and addiction rehabilitation. Our care team includes doctors, psychiatrists, nurse practitioners, registered nurses, psychiatric nurses, social workers, HIV counselors, care managers, and substance abuse counselors. Community Medicine Locations Our clinics can be found at the following residential shelters for people who are experiencing housing issues, transitional living, or homelessness. Except where noted, services are available to residents only. Atlantic House Men’s Shelter, 2402 Atlantic Avenue, 347-377-4230 Barbara S. Kleiman Shelter for Men, 300 Skillman Avenue, 718-302-7366 (community health services available to anyone in need, regardless of housing status) Bedford Atlantic Shelter, 1322 Bedford Avenue, 929-457-5671 Magnolia House Women’s Shelter, 1424 Herkimer Street, 347-377-4231 Park Slope Women’s Shelter, 1402 Eighth Avenue (health navigation and support services only) Bowery Residents Committee at 317 Bowery, 718-210-5293 Bowery Residents Committee at 127 West 25th Street, 212-533-3281 , extension 8624 Keener Men’s Shelter, 64 Sunken Garden Loop, Wards Island, 347-377-4243 Grand Central Neighborhood Social Services Corporation, 120 East 32nd Street, 347-377-3254 (care available to anyone who is homeless) Project Find—Woodstock Hotel, 127 West 43rd Street, 212-221-5748 For general information about our community medicine services, please call Our doctors and nurse practitioners provide annual checkups, immunizations, and urgent care. Kristoffersen A. Acoba Ramin Asgary Mirabai K. Batra Carolina E. Braginsky GD Geraldine Dufort SG Seeta Ganpat CJ Cynthia Jean-Baptiste Teineicia Knights UM Ursina A. Mercado MO Marlene Othoniel ES Erica Scher Jennifer D. Silverberg Alicia Stivala Derrick J. Tolbert-Walker Dental Medicine—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Find a Dentist & Schedule We have locations across New York City. 718-630-6875 Dental Medicine—Family Health Centers Dental care for adults, children, and people with special needs is available through locations as well as dental sites at our school-based centers. Our staff includes general dentists, pediatric dentists, dental specialists, and oral surgeons, as well as dental hygienists. We are the largest dental resident teaching facility in the United States. Dental school graduates work alongside our experienced faculty as they further their training. We provide preventive dental care to keep your teeth and gums clean and healthy. We treat cavities and perform dental procedures such as root canals, gum surgery, and dental implants. We also provide specialty dental care when it is needed, fit patients for crowns, bridges, and dentures, and provide treatment for oral–facial pain. Orthodontic care is available, as are cosmetic procedures such as tooth whitening and veneers. To ease the stress of dental treatment, sedation is available to our patients. Complex cases that require surgery and anesthesia can be treated at To make an appointment at any of these Family Health Center clinic locations, please call : Evening and Saturday appointments are available. Staff members are fluent in Arabic, Hindi, Mandarin, Russian, and Spanish. : Staff members are fluent in Arabic, French Creole, Mandarin, and Spanish. : Evening and Saturday appointments are available. Staff members are fluent in Arabic, Cantonese, Polish, and Spanish. : Saturday appointments are available. Staff members are fluent in Spanish. : Staff members are fluent in Mandarin. : Sunday appointments are available, and staff members are fluent in Cantonese, Mandarin, and Spanish. : Staff members are fluent in Spanish. We provide a full spectrum of dental care, including orthodontics and cosmetic dentistry, at Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice . Dental care for children is available at schools throughout New York City through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s Our Team of Dentists Our dentists treat adults and children. JA John F. Albano DMD Dentist Charles D. Azzaretti DDS CB Craig Berry Peggy L. Budhu John P. Celona Pediatric Dentist Julie A. Cernigliaro Luzmarina Coffey GC Gina M. Cucchiara Marina Fainberg MF Michael J. Feldman Danielle H. Fridline BG Beeren Gajjar Lynn Gargano Robert S. Goldberger Barry S. Goodman Betty Greenspan Meeta Grewal SH Sol D. Haber Plastic Surgery Dentist Bethany P. Harris DDS, MPH Susan Hernandez Jonathan M. Kamen Daniel J. Kane NK Nicholas S. Katchen View All 46 Doctors & 46 COVID-19 Pandemic Triggers Pediatric Dental Health Crisis Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Webinar Series at NYU Langone hosts hour-long webinars throughout the year. In the webinars, our experts discuss topics including the latest treatments for , research advances in the field, and managing life with the condition. MSWebinars@NYULangone.org 646-501-4797 Social Work Services at the Fresco Institute Providing multifaceted support for patients and families is part of what we do every day at the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone. Social workers help us make that happen. As part of our patient-centered care model, the Fresco Institute offers integrated, –specific social work support and wellness services for patients and their caregivers and families, with onsite social workers who are part of the care team. Our social workers are specialized and uniquely qualified to help you, your loved ones, and your care partners adapt to the emotional, physical, and practical concerns of living with Parkinson’s and other . We provide comprehensive assessments and develop support plans that fit your needs and goals, and address how these may change over time. We target your strengths, identify areas of concern, and tap into a broad range of resources for referral to help you to cope, adapt, and live well. We also provide disease-specific education and lead support groups for patients and care partners onsite and in the community. Our social work team members are leaders in the field and are national innovators in the development of Parkinson’s disease–specific support and wellness programs for patients and families in the clinic, in the community, and in home. All patients at the Fresco Institute can access our social work services. If you are interested in learning more about our social work program or to schedule an appointment, please contact our social worker at Parkinson’s Disease Support Group The Fresco Institute offers two support group programs—one for active people with Parkinson’s disease, and another for care partners of people with Parkinson’s disease. Trained and experienced professionals from our social work team lead the psychosocial groups, which are offered at no charge. An intake interview is required for support group participation. For more information or to schedule an intake interview, please contact our support and community services team at Social work support services are made possible through the generous support of the Parkinson’s Foundation and the Paolo and Marlene Fresco Foundation. Parkinson’s Disease Group Seminars We offer monthly educational group seminars that provide holistic education and resources for people who have been diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease and their caregivers. Skilled and experienced professional nurses facilitate the groups, which are open to the community. Discussion topics include current research about Parkinson’s disease, falls prevention, pain management, healthy sleep hygiene, maintaining relationships and sexual health, and how physical, occupational, and speech therapy can help you. To RSVP, or to learn more about our monthly educational group seminars, please contact our registered nurse at Our Fresco Institute Care Team At the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone, we believe that patients are best cared for by an expert and dedicated team of healthcare professionals who work together to enhance your quality of life. The team attends to your physical, emotional, and social needs. We are committed to providing comprehensive and compassionate care through every stage of the disease. Your core care team consists of neurologists, nurses, and social workers. We also collaborate with occupational therapists, physical therapists, speech–language pathologists, and palliative care providers who help focus on quality-of-life issues. Neurologists are physicians who specialize in disorders of the brain and nervous system. A specialist is a neurologist who has completed additional training in movement disorders, such as . These doctors assess your medical status, prescribe and monitor medications, and make referrals and recommendations for care. The social worker at the Fresco Institute is a healthcare specialist who help patients, care partners, and families adapt to the emotional, physical, and practical concerns of living with Parkinson’s disease and other movement disorders. Our social worker is uniquely qualified to assess psychosocial needs, provide psychological counseling, help patients to understand and implement their treatment plans, assist in long-term planning, and make referrals to support and wellness resources in the community and in the home. Learn more about our Nurses The team at the Fresco Institute includes a registered nurse who assesses individual concerns and difficulties, educate patients and their caregivers, and provide referrals to recommended programs and services. Our nurse assists in the assessment of patients’ physical and psychological status and monitors the effects and side effects of medications. Services Available at Rusk Rehabilitation Many of our services are available through , where people with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders can receive the physical rehabilitation that is an important part of the treatment plan. Physiatry Physiatrists are physicians who specialize in physical medicine and rehabilitation. They oversee your treatment team and coordinate your physical and medical care. A physiatrist can monitor your response to therapy and make adjustments in medications or your treatment plan to promote optimum functioning and enhance your quality of life. Occupational therapists use exercise, adaptive devices, and modifications to your usual routines to help you preserve motor function and retain your independence for as long as possible. Our therapies help people perform activities of daily living, including feeding, bathing, grooming, toileting, dressing, bed and chair transfers, writing, and workplace activities. We can also help you with issues such as balance and coordination, as well as work with you to make sure you have the skills and adaptations necessary to live safely at home. When Parkinson’s disease affects gait and mobility, our physical therapists can help. We create individual and goal-specific exercise programs and therapies that focus on improving balance, strength, posture, flexibility, and endurance. Physical therapists also help families by teaching safe, effective, and efficient ways to provide a loved one with the physical assistance he or she needs. If you develop issues related to speech, voice, memory, and swallowing, our speech–language pathologists can help. The speech–language pathology program at NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation provides treatment. Rusk Rehabilitation’s Swallowing Disorders Program provides evaluation and treatment focused on improving swallowing function. Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Community Events hosts regular educational and community events throughout the year for people who have , as well as their partners, family, and friends. For more information, please call or email Kathy-An Glynn at Kathyan.Glynn@NYULangone.org The team at the MS Palliative Care Center, part of NYU Langone’s Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center, provides supportive care to improve the lives of people who have MS and their families. Working in an outpatient setting, our palliative care specialists are dedicated to helping people at any age or stage of the condition. Palliative care can help relieve pain and other MS symptoms and address the side effects of treatment. Our goal is to enhance quality of life through individualized care. We specialize in caring for people with MS who experience high levels of distress, difficult-to-manage symptoms, or disease progression. Working with your neurologist, we provide personalized, goal-oriented care matching your goals and values, and we also assist with treatment decisions. Our team works with you and your family to support physical, emotional, and social needs related to your condition. We address common MS symptoms and side effects, including anxiety, depression, and fatigue. People experiencing fatigue or coping with the stress of MS may benefit from integrative care and services. We refer patients to NYU Langone’s for psychological, physical, occupational, speech, and pelvic floor therapies. Additionally, we assist with gaining access to social resources and spiritual support. Patients and families may receive guidance to navigate difficult decisions. As specialists in advanced care planning, we empower patients to express their values and care preferences, with the goal of honoring their decisions. We can assist with healthcare proxy forms medical orders for life-sustaining treatment Our MS-Support Team We are a special team of board-certified nurse practitioners (NPs) . Working with members of each patient’s care team, our NPs provide an extra layer of support and care coordination. A referral from your doctor is required to schedule an appointment with the MS-Support team. After receiving the referral, a member of our team will reach out to you to schedule an appointment. We offer same-day, next-day, and telemedicine appointments. Experts at the Neuromyelitis Optica and MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment and Research Program, part of NYU Langone’s , provide treatment, counseling, and education for people with this condition and their families. Neuromyelitis optica, also known as neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD), is an autoimmune condition in which the immune system mistakenly damages healthy nervous system tissue. In most cases of NMOSD, aquaporin-4 antibody, also known as NMO antibody, can be detected in the blood. NMO antibodies can damage the optic nerves, spinal cord, and sometimes the brain. Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody associated disorder (MOGAD) is a recently described autoimmune disease that may resemble NMOSD, but requires a different treatment. NMOSD is a rare disorder, affecting approximately 16,000 people in the United States. MOGAD is similarly rare. Our doctors provide treatment for people with NMOSD and MOGAD in children and adults. Our center has evaluated more than 350 people with these rare conditions. NMOSD and MOG antibody syndromes are often mistaken for , a more common central nervous system autoimmune disorder that has similar symptoms. Standard MS treatments can worsen NMOSD and MOG antibody syndromes, so accurate diagnosis is very important. If proper treatment is started soon after symptom onset, prolonged remission that stops the disease from progressing is realistic. The Neuromyelitis Optica and MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment and Research Program is led by Ilya Kister, MD , who has extensive experience treating NMOSD and MOG antibody disorder, and is a leader in research into these conditions. Lauren B. Krupp, MD , and her fellow clinicians see pediatric patients who have these conditions. Diagnosing NMOSD Diagnosing NMOSD starts with a detailed history of the person’s symptoms. During an NMOSD attack, or relapse, people with the condition might experience eye pain; vision loss; numbness, weakness, or paralysis in the arms and legs; and loss of bladder and bowel control. A neurological examination is performed to determine whether relapse has occurred. If NMOSD relapse is suspected, an of the brain, optic nerve, and spinal cord might be performed to look for the hallmark lesions of the disease. NMO and MOG antibodies will be tested with blood tests that are usually sent out to a specialized laboratory. Treatment for NMOSD and MOGAD Care for people with NMOSD and MOGAD is provided by our dedicated team, which includes neurologists, neuro-ophthalmologists, a neuro-urologist, nurse coordinators, social workers, occupational therapists, and psychologists. The key to preventing disability in NMOSD and MOGAD is in preventing relapses. Currently there are three U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved therapies for NMOSD—satralizumab (brand name: Enspryng), eculizumab (Soliris), and inebilizumab (Uplizna). In addition, our doctors have extensive experience with off-label therapies that are highly effective such as rituximab (Rituxan) and tocilizumab (Actemra). For MOGAD relapse prevention, there are no FDA-approved treatments. Several medications are used off label, including intravenous immunoglobulins, subcutaneous immunoglobulins, and oral immunosuppressant drugs such as mycophenolate mofetil (CellCept). Our center is currently participating in a clinical trial, which, if successful, could lead to approval of the first drug for MOGAD. During relapse, we prescribe intravenous steroids to help speed recovery. This may be combined with plasmapheresis, which is a way to remove disease-triggering antibodies from the blood. People with NMOSD and MOGAD may experience symptoms caused by damage to the nervous tissue. A variety of medications, as well as non-medication approaches, are available to alleviate common symptoms of these diseases. Infusion therapies can be provided at the infusion centers at , and other NYU Langone-affiliated infusion sites. For relapses requiring inpatient care, specialized care is provided at Tisch Hospital. Expert inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation therapy is available at Clinical Research in NMOSD and MOGAD NYU Langone doctors are among the leaders in clinical research into better treatments for this rare disorder, and have published widely on the subject of NMOSD. Our patients can contribute to research into NMOSD through clinical trials. We are currently participating in Meteoroid , clinical trial into a promising new treatment for MOGAD called satralizumab. To learn more about our research program, please email Dr. Kister at Ilya.Kister@NYULangone.org To make an appointment for an evaluation by one of our experts at the Neuromyelitis Optica and MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment and Research Program, please call . To learn more about our research or for other questions, please contact Dr. Kister at Waiting: It’s one of the hardest jobs of someone in need of a lung transplant. At NYU Langone, we get people off the waitlist five-times faster than other hospitals. This, along with our commitment to providing the highest standard of care, makes us the No. 1 lung transplant program in the United States. , part of the Two million brain cells are lost every minute a stroke goes untreated. So, we deliver lifesaving treatment 10 minutes faster than other New York hospitals. Our team of neurologists, neuroradiologists, nurses, and EMTs move with unparalleled efficiency from the second you arrive at the hospital. It’s why we’re the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery, according to ’s “Best Hospitals” 2024–25. Learn more about our Comprehensive Stroke Center Read about our No. 1 ranking Read about our High Standards of Care In brain surgery, every millimeter matters. So, we use VR to rehearse your exact procedure before you enter the operating room, and AI to inform real-time decisions during surgery—to deliver the highest survival rates in the nation. It’s why we’re the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery, according to Learn more about our Department of Neurosurgery Military Family Center Team The care team at the NYU Langone Military Family Center offers support and treatment for veterans and their families experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) substance use disorder , and other mental health conditions. Directors Charles R. Marmar, MD Chair of Psychiatry | Psychiatry Internationally recognized for his expertise in post-traumatic stress, Dr. Marmar treats veterans, including those who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, who have combat-related conditions. He also works with refugees and earthquake survivors. J. David Stiffler, MD Medical Director | Psychiatry Dr. Stiffler is medical director of the Military Family Center. Ariane Ling, PhD Assistant Director | Psychology Dr. Ling is assistant director of the Military Family Center, a clinical psychologist, and clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. Dr. Ling provides integrative, culturally attuned, and individually tailored evidence-based psychotherapy to individuals and couples experiencing substance use difficulties, PTSD, depression, anxiety, and adjustment and psychosocial stressors. Clinical Staff William Folberth, PsyD Dr. Folberth is a clinical psychologist and clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. He specializes in working with children, adolescents, and families who have been impacted by trauma and has extensive experience providing cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) to address a wide range of anxiety and mood disorders. He has presented at the annual convention of the Anxiety and Depression Association of America on the implementation of evidence-based treatments to treat PTSD in children and adolescents. BJ Brittney S. Jordan, PsyD Dr. Jordan is a clinical psychologist. AP Amy P. Palfrey, PhD Dr. Palfrey is a clinical psychologist. Justin R. Pomerenke, PhD Dr. Pomerenke is a clinical psychologist and clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. His training emphasized the treatment and research of PTSD and co-occurring conditions such as substance use disorder and insomnia. Dr. Pomerenke provides individually tailored cognitive behavioral treatments for PTSD, anxiety, substance use disorders, and depression. He has specialized training in a variety of evidence-based therapies, including exposure therapies such as exposure and response prevention for obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD) and prolonged exposure for PTSD, cognitive processing therapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, and dialectical behavior therapy. Amanda M. Spray, PhD Clinic Director | Psychology Dr. Spray is a clinical psychologist and clinical associate professor in the Department of Psychiatry. At the center, Dr. Spray provides individual cognitive behavioral psychotherapy to adults and specializes in trauma, health psychology, and adult attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Anne G. Torell, PhD Training Director | Psychiatry Dr. Torell is a clinical psychologist. Support Staff RM RoviSta Maria, MA Program Coordinator Ms. Sta. Maria is the clinic’s program associate, responsible for providing administrative and program support for staff, in addition to being one of the initial points of contact for incoming and existing clients. She holds a master’s degree in industrial/organizational psychology from the CUNY School of Professional Studies. JZ Jun Zhang Database Analyst Ms. Zhang is the clinic’s database analyst. She provides comprehensive data management support for all initiatives at the clinic. She holds a master’s degree in information systems from NYU. Complete the form below to create your NYU Langone Health MyChart account and get started with your orthopedic second opinion. Confirm Eligibility You must be age 18 or older to be eligible for NYU Langone’s online second opinion service. We arenot currently able to offer this online service outside of the U.S., or in the following states: Alabama,Alaska, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, Nevada, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Carolina, and Wyoming. If you would prefer an in-person visit with an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon,you can browse our I live in the U.S. and am not currently located in one of the following states: AL, AK, IA, ME, MD, MI, NM,NV, ND, RI, SC, and WY. Personal Information Date of Birth Month (MM) Day (DD) Year (YYYY) Legal Sex Why do we ask for this? We are committed to making sure all patients feel safe and respected. We understand that not everyone’s legal sex is the same as their gender identity. We ask about legal sex because it is necessary for insurance billing, and assists us in linking this visit to prior visits. Please select the sex listed on your State ID and/or Insurance Card. You will have the opportunity to provide more detailed information on your Gender Identity and Pronouns later in the registration process. Female Male State Phone Type Mobile Work At NYU Langone we provide care for the tiniest of hearts, and we have the highest success rates for pediatric heart surgery in New York. After surgery, we get children home four weeks sooner than other hospitals. and how our heart surgery program is No. 1 in the state, according to ’s “Best Children’s Hospitals” 2023–24. Watch Video The Highest Standard of Care. For You. We strive for excellence in everything we do. Expect more every
time you see us. Keep up with the latest from NYU Langone Expert Care Everywhere Get same-day treatment for common, non-emergency illnesses and injuries Our doctors provide specialized care in the areas of cardiology, surgery, orthopedics, and more We care for all types of childhood conditions, from the most common to the most complex People Community Meet the people who ensure we provide the highest-quality care. Women’s Heart Attacks Are Often Misdiagnosed. Dr. Harmony
Reynolds Is on a Mission to Change That. Patient Discovers a Heart Health Advocate in This NYU Langone
Cardiologist NYU Langone Health Is No. 1 in the Nation for Quality &
Safety Born at Just 1 Pound, a Baby Named Battle Is Thriving
After 167 Days in the NICU Breast Cancer in Black Women Requires Greater
Vigilance Pioneering technology and progressing research to advance the
standard of health everywhere. Xenotransplantation Gives New Hope to the Future of the Organ Supply The NYU Langone Transplant Institute team concluded its two-month study of a transplanted genetically engineered pig kidney into a human. Innovative Heart Surgery Returns Young Athlete to Sports
He Loves New Vaccine Type Dramatically Reduced Melanoma
Recurrence World’s First Whole-Eye & Partial-Face Transplant Working tirelessly to improve health equity and deliver the
highest standard of care to the communities we serve. NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Raises the Bar for Care in a
Borough Where Quality Has Fallen Short Dr. Aaron Lord, chief of neurology at NYU Langone
Hospital—Brooklyn, leads one of the top neurocritical care
teams in Brooklyn with his patient, Angelica Gomez. Ovarian Cancer Treatment Keeps Women's Dream of Motherhood
Alive NYU Langone Health’s Institute for Excellence in Health
Equity Receives $12.5 Million Dialysis from the Comfort of Your Own Home? NYU Langone
Hospital—Long Island Makes It Possible Military Family Center Programs & Services The healthcare professionals at the NYU Langone Military Family Center provide free and confidential services for veterans and families in many specialty areas, including the following: post-traumatic stress traumatic brain injury alcohol and substance use disorder grief and loss relationship and family conflict military sexual trauma readjustment issues parenting concerns children’s behavioral or academic problems In addition to our general clinical program, we offer the following specialty programs: Online Doctor Visits As part of our Telemental Health Program, our doctors provide online mental healthcare to veterans and their families in New York and Connecticut who are unable to regularly commute to in-person therapy. Online doctor visits are accessed through the , a secure and confidential platform. The video visits take place in the privacy of your own home or wherever you feel most comfortable and can ensure confidentiality, allowing us to provide care and support that best meets your needs and those of your family. For more information, call Psychiatric Medication Management The Military Family Center provides evaluations and ongoing treatment with a psychiatrist for people experiencing a wide array of issues, including depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), trauma, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) , insomnia, and problems with drugs or alcohol. Medications can be prescribed if needed, and follow-up appointments are scheduled regularly to ensure that the medicine is effective in easing your symptoms. Our team works to fine-tune treatment to achieve the best possible results. Dual Diagnosis Program Our Welcome Back Veterans Dual Diagnosis Program, made possible by the Robert R. McCormick Foundation and Major League Baseball, offers flexible, integrative care for veterans, service members, and their family members struggling with substance abuse disorder and co-occurring mental health problems. This includes those who want to completely stop use or to reduce the problems associated with substance use. Treatment with an addiction psychiatrist and psychologist for both medications and therapy can be provided. Traumatic Brain Injury Program Approximately 300,000 veterans sustained a traumatic brain injury (TBI) as a result of serving in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and 57 percent were not evaluated or treated for TBI. Our Traumatic Brain Injury Program, funded by the New York City Council, offers services to fill this gap in treatment. The program provides neuropsychological evaluations, which help to understand the relationship between brain and behavior. These evaluations offer in-depth assessment of memory, visual and verbal thinking, attention, problem solving, planning, and mood. The Traumatic Brain Injury Program also offers cognitive training to develop strategies to work around cognitive difficulties. Training consists of 10 weekly meetings for 1 to 2 hours with a neuropsychologist to learn problem solving, organizational strategies, and memory and attention techniques. The program also provides patients with the opportunity to learn how mood, sleep, and headaches can affect cognitive functioning, and strategies to work on these domains. The individualized treatment caters to the specific challenges and strengths of each veteran, guided by the neuropsychological assessment. Child and Family Program Military children face unique stressors related to relocation, parental separation, family reunification, and reintegration. These stressors may result in disrupted relationships, behavioral problems, and academic difficulties. Many children struggle to adjust to their parent’s combat injury, whether visible or invisible, or deal with a parent’s death. The Child and Family Program provides individual child therapy, parent–child therapy, family therapy, social skills groups for children, and parenting support workshops. Expressive arts, games, and play are central components used to address and process concerns that impact the whole family. These services are offered to veterans and current service members and their families, as well as families of the fallen. Couples Therapy The Military Family Center provides support to couples experiencing relational difficulties, including conflict, a sense of disconnection, and problems with communication. Although the majority of military families are strong and resilient, stress related to military service may affect intimate relationships, at times leading to problems such as domestic violence and divorce. Using emotionally focused couples therapy, our clinicians are here to help couples restore a sense of connection, safety, and intimacy between the partners. Couples do not have to be legally married to qualify for services. ADHD Assessments We provide attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) assessments and treatment for veterans and their families. ADHD in adults affects approximately 5 percent of our nation’s veterans. It can interfere with your ability to reach your goals in academics, your job, and even your family life. Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Leadership & Board of Trustees An experienced group of administrators, clinicians, and community representatives provides leadership and oversight for the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Executive Leadership Larry K. McReynolds , Executive Director Isaac P. Dapkins, MD , Chief Medical Officer Eric Doescher, Vice President for Administration and Network Integration Astrid P. Gonzalez, Vice President, Finance Kathy Hopkins, Vice President, Department of Community Programs Margaret Mason, DMD, Vice President of Dental Medicine Board of Trustees Chang Xie, Chair Lucy Sanabria, Vice Chair Anthony Santiago, Treasurer Cynthia Felix Jeffers, Secretary Members Karen Broughton Wai Yee Chan Thomas Early Brenda Grandell Gary E. Kalkut, MD, MPH Rabbi Robert Kaplan Shemala C. Lovell Angela Martinez Violeta Maya Rev. Lawrence V. Pitta Judge Christopher Robles Leslie Simonetti Rev. Samuel Fook Wong Richard Villar, Esq. The mailing address for the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone is 5800 Third Avenue, Second Floor, Brooklyn, NY 11220. nbowman 2024-12-16T07:41:51+00:00 > Your Search for an Exceptional Career Starts Here We have a range of exciting career opportunities, all supported by our unwavering commitment to helping all our faculty and staff reach their full potential. Job Search Filters Use the filters below to refine your job search. View the table below the map for a complete list of results. A selection of relevant jobs across our locations will appear in the map. Enter Keywords or MOS Code to  Search for a Job Career Specialties Position Type Facility Clear all filters Apply Filters 0 Live Results Job Title Job ID Shift Preparing for Your Visit to the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone offer social services, as well as medical, behavioral health, dental, and rehabilitation care. The following tips may be helpful as you plan for your visit with us. How do I schedule an appointment? To schedule an appointment at any of our Family Health Centers locations, please call . When you call, please be ready to provide the full name of the person you are making the appointment for, his or her date of birth, phone number, health insurance information, and the reason for your appointment request. You may receive a reminder phone call two days in advance of your appointment. If you are unable to keep your appointment, please call as soon as possible to reschedule. What should I bring to my appointment? For your first appointment at any of our Family Health Centers, please bring copies of your medical records, if you have them. Always bring any medications you are currently taking, your insurance card, and any referral or precertification information. If you are a new patient, please plan to arrive 30 minutes in advance of your appointment to fill out necessary paperwork. All other patients are asked to please arrive 15 minutes early. Which insurance plans and forms of payment do you accept? The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide financial assistance to patients who cannot pay for their medical care. We have an established sliding scale discount program that assures that patients have access to all the services we offer (health center’s scope of service), regardless of their ability to pay. We accept Medicare, Medicaid, and other major insurances. Patients without insurance or whose insurance is limited can apply for the sliding scale fee program. Please note that applying for and/or being turned down for insurance is not a prerequisite for a sliding scale fee or other discount. Please let a Family Health Center staff member know if you have any questions or wish to apply for the sliding scale discount program. We are here to assist you. Please bring proof of income and family size, and one of our appointment coordinators can review your payment options and the programs you may qualify for. Co-pays and other charges may be paid with cash, personal check, money orders, or major credit cards. If you have a billing question, please call How can I access my medical information and test results? You may use to view your lab and test results, access medical records, request prescription refills, send a secure message to your doctor’s office, or pay a bill. MyChart at NYU Langone Health can be accessed by computer or through a mobile app. Women's Health—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Women’s health services, gynecological care, and obstetric care are provided by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Our main location for care specific to women’s health is . Services are also available at: testing and prenatal care. Your first doctor’s visit when you are pregnant starts with a sonogram, a painless test that allows the doctor to see your baby and make sure that he or she is developing normally. We also talk with you about things you can do to have a healthy pregnancy, such as eating right, drinking enough water, making healthy choices when it comes to sex, and seeing a . Some women experience or other mental health issues during or after pregnancy, and we can refer you to our During your pregnancy, you can choose to participate in our shared medical appointment program. These sessions combine your own doctor’s appointment with childbirth and breastfeeding classes, a tour of labor and delivery at , and a meeting with our pediatricians. You can also meet other soon-to-be mothers, and talk about things you have in common. Our nurses are available to answer any questions you have about pregnancy and childbirth. We perform all medical testing on site, including blood tests. If your doctor thinks you need extra care during your pregnancy, or if you or your baby have been diagnosed with a medical condition, we have doctors who are experts in helping you have as healthy a pregnancy as possible. Gynecological and Women’s Health Services Our OB/GYN physicians provide annual women’s health checkups. This includes testing for sexually transmitted diseases such as , Pap smears to check for human papillomavirus , and screenings for and other cancers. Birth control, including intrauterine device (IUD) placement, is also available. If you have , or any other women’s health issue, our doctors can help. If you have been diagnosed with , our breast cancer surgeon is available to provide treatment. Our insurance representatives can help you apply for Medicaid and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), if you qualify. We also have a sliding-scale payment system that is based on your income. For women who need help with issues related to domestic violence, immigration, or housing, we provide consultation with a lawyer from Her Justice legal services. This program is coordinated by Community-Based Programs—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone School Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone The School Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides medical, mental health, dental, and vision services, along with health education, directly to children and adolescents through clinics located in public elementary, middle, and high schools throughout New York City. We care for children when they are sick, but also provide the preventive medical care to keep them healthy. Parental Consent Forms For a child to receive care through the School Health Program, parents are required to complete consent forms. View Our Parental Consent Forms By operating clinics inside schools, we help ensure that healthcare is accessible and convenient for children and families. A healthy child misses fewer days of school, which makes it easier to keep up with schoolwork and succeed academically. Also, when a child is healthy, his or her parents miss fewer days of work. School-based clinics are staffed by at least one nurse practitioner who can write prescriptions, order diagnostic tests for illnesses such as strep throat, and help manage chronic conditions including . The health team includes physician assistants, nurse practitioners, social workers, psychologists, health educators, medical associates, and patient services associates. Our dentistry program is staffed by a dentist and dental hygienist. Although insurance is billed for visits when appropriate, visits to the school-based health center lead to no out-of-pocket costs to families. Full-Service Healthcare for Children Care received through the School Health Program does not replace a child’s regular pediatrician or dentist visits. But the clinics can supplement care when necessary, or provide it if a child does not have a regular doctor or dentist. Preventive care includes immunizations, annual well visits, and back-to-school and sports physicals. The medical team is also available to treat illnesses; administer first aid; provide referral to specialists as needed; and conduct dental, vision, and hearing screenings. At our high school locations, teenagers receive sexual health education, access to contraception, and testing for and sexually transmitted diseases such as Our dental staff performs cleanings, treats cavities, and provides preventive care such as fluoride treatment. Our behavioral health clinicians conduct screenings and psychosocial assessments for students referred for treatment. They provide specific interventions to ensure that students’ social and emotional needs are addressed. There is also access to off-site psychiatric services and referrals to various social services agencies in the community. All services are available to students enrolled at the participating school. Appointments are scheduled during the school day. A parental consent form is required for all children receiving medical care , with the exception of adolescents receiving sexual health services. For more information, please contact the individual school. When schools are closed, services are available at all locations. A parental consent form is required for all children receiving medical care or dental care, with the exception of adolescents receiving sexual health services. We also require a parental consent form for eligible children and adolescents to receive COVID-19 vaccination. You can fill out and submit the following online forms: Parental Consent Form for Medical Services Parental Consent Form for Medical Services in Chinese (中文) Parental Consent Form for Medical Services in Spanish (Español) Parental Consent Form for Behavioral Health Services Parental Consent Form for Dental Services Parental Consent Form for Dental Services in Spanish (Español) Parental Consent Form for COVID-19 Vaccination Parental Consent Form for COVID-19 Vaccination in Spanish (Español) Our Program Locations The School Health Program provides medical, behavioral, vision, and dental care through many New York City public schools in the Bronx Contact our School Health Program Hotline at 347-377-3170 and choose the option for medical, behavioral health, or dental services. PS 179/369, 468 East 140th Street: dental services Abraham Lincoln High School, 2800 Ocean Parkway: behavioral health and medical care Boys and Girls High School, 1700 Fulton Street: behavioral health Dewey MS 136, 4004 Fourth Avenue: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care Ditmas JHS 62, 700 Cortelyou Road: dental services Erasmus Hall Educational Campus, 911 Flatbush Avenue: behavioral health and medical care Frank J. Macchiarola Education Complex, 3000 Avenue X, Room 105: behavioral health and medical care George Wingate Educational Campus, 600 Kingston Avenue: behavioral health and medical care IS 291K Roland Hayes, 231 Palmetto Street: dental services Juan Morel Campos Campus, 215 Heyward Street: behavioral health and medical care MS 61, 400 Empire Boulevard: dental services MS 88, 544 Seventh Avenue: behavioral health and dental services MS 898, 130 Rochester Avenue: dental services Pershing JHS 220, 4812 Ninth Avenue: dental services and medical care PS 1, 309 47th Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS 10, 511 Seventh Avenue: behavioral health PS 12/MS 484, 430 Howard Avenue: dental services PS 15, 71 Sullivan Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS 24, 427 38th Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS 25, 787 Lafayette Avenue: dental services PS 40 The George Washington Carver School, 265 Ralph Avenue: dental services PS 90, 2840 West 12th Street: dental services PS 91, 532 Albany Avenue: dental services PS 92, 601 Parkside Avenue: dental services PS 94, 5010 Sixth Avenue: medical care PS 105, 1031 59th Street: dental services PS 135, 684 Linden Boulevard: dental services PS 169, 4305 Seventh Avenue: dental services PS 172, 825 Fourth Avenue: behavioral health and medical care PS 188, 3314 Neptune Avenue: dental services, behavioral health, vision, and medical care PS 194, 3117 Avenue W: dental services PS 196/MS 582, 207 Bushwick Avenue: dental services PS 217, 1100 Newkirk Avenue: dental services PS 243, 1580 Dean Street: dental services PS 257, 60 Cook Street: dental services PS 282, 180 Sixth Avenue: behavioral health and dental services PS 288, 2950 West 25th Street: dental services PS 307, 209 York Street: behavioral health and dental services PS 329/PS 771, 2929 West 30th Street: dental services PS 335, 130 Rochester Avenue: dental services PS 503/506, 330 60th Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS/IS 157, 850 Kent Avenue: dental services PS 939/MS 936, 270 59th Street: dental services South Shore Educational Complex, 6565 Flatlands Avenue: behavioral health and medical care Sunset Park High School, 153 35th Street: behavioral health and medical care PS 2, 122 Henry Street: dental services PS 28, 475 West 155th Street: dental services PS 38, 232 East 103 Street: dental services PS 124, 40 Division Street: dental services PS 153 and PS 368, 1750 Amsterdam Avenue: dental services PS 171, 19 East 103rd Street: dental services Goldie Maple Academy (PS 333) and Q256 at PS 333, 365 Beach 56th Street, Far Rockaway: dental services PS 14, 107-01 Otis Avenue: dental services PS 19Q Marino P. Jeantet School, 40-10 99th Street, Corona: dental services PS/MS 43Q and P256Q at PS 43, 160 Beach 29th Street, Far Rockaway: dental services Village Academy (MS 319), 10-45 Nameoke Street, Far Rockaway: dental services PS 18, 221 Broadway: dental services PS 31, 55 Layton Avenue: dental services PS 44, 80 Maple Parkway: dental services Rehabilitation Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Rehabilitation therapy to help adults and children recover after an illness or injury is available through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Physical therapists, occupational therapists, speech–language pathologists, and audiologists are available at the following Rusk Rehabilitation locations: Rusk Rehabilitation Brooklyn at Seventh Avenue Family Health Center Rusk Rehabilitation Brooklyn at Shore Road Rusk Rehabilitation Brooklyn at 60th Street Pediatric Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Pediatricians at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide expert care to children at our center locations as well as within numerous schools throughout New York City. Our experts in pediatrics and adolescent medicine treat children of all ages, from newborns to teenagers and young adults. We provide checkups, immunizations, and health screenings. mental healthcare are also provided. Gynecological and sexual healthcare are available for adolescents and young adults. Specialized care is also available in the following areas: pediatric cardiology, to treat conditions that affect the heart, including pediatric endocrinology, to treat , hormonal disorders, and conditions that affect the thyroid pediatric gastroenterology, to treat conditions that affect digestion and the liver, including celiac disease pediatric nephrology, to treat kidney or urinary tract conditions, including urinary tract infection pediatric neurology, to treat conditions that affect the brain, including pediatric pulmonology, to treat airway, breathing, and lung conditions, including is our primary location for pediatric care. We also care for children at the following Family Health Centers locations: Family Physician Family Health Center Flatbush Family Health Center Park Ridge Family Health Center Park Slope Family Health Center Seventh Avenue Family Health Center Sunset Terrace Family Health Center Care is also available for children through our , which provides medical, dental, and mental healthcare to children in select schools in Brooklyn, Manhattan, Staten Island, and the Bronx. Family Strengthening Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Family Strengthening Services, part of , provide the resources people need to achieve health, family stability, and economic self-sufficiency. Programs and services are listed below: Family Support Services Family Support Services provide supportive counseling and case management services. We help people apply for public benefits, address immediate needs such as food insecurity and provide referrals to educational, health, legal, housing, and supportive programs best suited to our clients’ needs. Family support counselors speak multiple languages and are available for walk-in appointments. For more information, please call 718-630-7186 Nutrition Support USDA Nondiscrimination Statement Learn what to do if your application for benefits has been turned down, including how to request a hearing, file a complaint, and more. Read the Statement Our Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program provides nutrition education, supplemental foods, healthcare referrals, and breastfeeding support to pregnant women, infants, and children up to 5 years of age. For more information, please call 718-630-7161 Greenlight offers parent education workshops on healthy eating behaviors for children starting at age two months.  For more information, please call 718-210-1030 The Family Health Centers is also home to a client-choice food pantry, The Table, which provides emergency food to thousands of people each month. The strategic location of emergency food service at the FHC enables participants to be connected to a continuum of wrap-around services, including access to SNAP food stamps and other benefits that will ensure long-term food security and support the health, stability, and self-sufficiency of the entire family. For more information, please call 347-377-4091 Older Adult Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Our extensive continuum of Services for Older Adults, part of , is here to help support our aging neighbors and their caregivers in the Sunset Park and Bay Ridge neighborhoods.  These services are a part of the Family Health Centers’ commitment to helping community members stay socially connected, healthy, and active as they age in place. Older Adult Centers We operate two Older Adult Centers (also known as Senior Centers) available to anyone in New York City over the age of 60, providing daily recreational, educational, and health promotion activities as well as a hot and nutritious lunch. Supportive counseling, case assistance, yoga instruction, computer classes, field trips, arts and crafts, and a variety of other activities are offered each month. Please call the Centers directly for more information: Shore Hill Older Adult Center at 9000 Shore Road – 718-630-7588 Sunset Park Older Adult Center at 4520 4th Avenue – 718-210-1050 Social Adult Day Services and Caregiver Support Located in Bay Ridge, our Seniors in Touch social adult day program provides social, recreational, and therapeutic activities to older adults living with cognitive or physical impairments. VIDEO: The Seniors in Touch social adult day program in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, provides a safe space for older adults with cognitive or physical impairments. Our program enhances the overall quality of life, wellbeing, and daily functioning of our participants, while providing peace of mind for their caregivers.  Door-to-door, wheelchair-accessible transportation is available for program participants. Caregiver Support services are offered to caregivers of elderly and frail adults in the community. Monthly support groups, care consultation, and educational workshops are offered. Please call the program at 347-377-5471 , for more details about social adult day and caregiver resources. Community Development Programs at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Our community development programs, part of , provide people with the skills they need to effect change in their own lives and in the neighborhoods where they live. This is done through the following programs: Adult Education and Workforce Development The Community Empowerment Program provides English language instruction, high school equivalency, and basic education classes. The program also offers job trainings focused on the health care and early childhood sectors, career counseling, and other workforce readiness supports. For more information about English language instruction, please call 718-630-7150 . For more information about GED prep classes, please call 718-768-0778 Community Engagement and Volunteerism We work with the AmeriCorps National Service program to help place community service volunteers in stipend-paid, full-time, full-year service opportunities. Volunteers work at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone locations, as well as other partnering agencies. For more information, please call 718-630-7164 .  To apply, please visit: Education and School Readiness Corps CHCANYS Public Health Corps at NYU Langone Food Security Corps Youth & Adolescent Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Through Project Reach Youth, part of , we provide teenagers and young adults with the support they need to be healthy and safe, reach educational and career goals, develop new skills, and prepare for adulthood. GED High School Equivalency Prep Program The Basic Education, Adult Literacy, and GED High School Equivalency Preparation Program provides education, guidance, and support for people age 17 and a half and older who have not completed high school. Classes, tutoring, counseling, and workshops help participants successfully complete the GED exam and prepare for college and a career. For more information on adult education programs, please call Project SAFE Program Project SAFE prevents unintended pregnancy and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDS through evidence-based interventions within a youth development framework, building upon the existing strengths of young people. The program provides youth ages 10 to 19 with support to avoid risky behaviors, develop to their full potential, and become agents of change in their communities. The program model includes evidence-based sexual health workshops, peer-led health education groups and community events, and sexual health services designed to meet the unique needs of adolescents. For more information on the The Project SAFE Teen Health Center, based at the , serves youth between the ages of 13 and 20. Birth control, emergency contraception, gynecological exams, and testing for pregnancy, sexually transmitted disease, and HIV are provided. Health education and counseling are also available. For more information on the Project SAFE Teen Health Center, please call 347-880-8042 Project TRACK Project TRACK is an afterschool program that provides high school students with the resources and opportunities they need to successfully complete high school and transition into college and career. Services include case management, college advisement, college trips, homework help, tutoring, community service opportunities, and enrichment activities including cooking, the arts, and sports. For more information, please call 718-832-4281 Unique Hearts. Same High Standard of Care. We have the nation’s highest rating for cardiac surgery. Digital Health Everywhere Our digital health platforms are revolutionizing the way patients receive care. Meet Karen: Breast Cancer Survivor When her metastatic breast cancer returned, Karen Petersen knew that a clinical trial was her last hope. Dr. Catherine Manno, Chair of Pediatrics Dr. Catherine S. Manno, chair of the Department of Pediatrics, discusses her father’s impact on her career. The Better Health System Dr. Catherine Manno Explore Our Campaigns Adult Medicine Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Primary care doctors at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide the treatment you need when you’re not feeling well, and the preventive care that can help keep you healthy. Annual checkups, immunizations, back-to-work physicals, and health screenings are provided by our doctors and nurse practitioners, who serve as your family doctors and are board-certified in internal medicine. We also care for you when you need treatment for an illness such as a cold, flu, or stomach virus. If you need specialized medical care, it is available from our specialists at NYU Langone. They provide care in the following areas: , for heart-related conditions dermatology , for skin-related conditions endocrinology and conditions that affect the thyroid , for conditions that affect digestion gerontology, which is specialized care for older adults hematology and hematology-oncology for blood-related disorders and cancers hepatology , to care for conditions that affect the liver infectious disease care , including testing, treatment, and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) nephrology, to care for kidney-related conditions , for medical conditions and injuries that affect the brain, including , for conditions that affect vision and the eye , to treat conditions that affect the eyes, ear, and nose physiatry, or physical medicine, to help you recover from injury podiatry, to treat conditions that affect the foot pulmonology to treat conditions that affect the lungs and breathing, including , to treat arthritis and other conditions that affect the joints, muscles, and bones urology, to treat conditions such as incontinence and others that affect the male reproductive system We also have experts in the following surgical specialties: for weight loss breast surgery to treat orofacial surgery trauma surgery vascular surgery Nutrition counseling, osteopathic manipulation, pain management, testing for sexually transmitted diseases, substance use disorder treatment, and are also available through our Family Health Center locations. Bilingual care from doctors and nurses who speak Arabic, Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Haitian Creole, French, or Russian, is available at designated sites. Adult medicine care is available at the following Family Health Center locations: Conditions We Treat Through Virtual Urgent Care Whether its flu-like symptoms , everyday aches, or another common, non-emergency condition, our providers treat adults and children ages 5 and older. Conditions Our Providers Can Treat Virtual Urgent Care is a convenient option for many everyday health concerns. Below are some of the common conditions we treat. mild fever runny nose sinus pain viral illnesses, including common cold, , respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), and COVID-19 Aches and Pains foot and leg pain gout rashes sprains or strains Stomach and Digestive Issues diarrhea and vomiting motion sickness symptoms General Infections cold sores sexually transmitted infections Protection Against HIV Infection pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP ), a medication taken daily to protect against for people who do not have HIV but are at high risk of contracting the infection. We also provide post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) after a possible exposure to body fluid. Conditions Not Treated at Virtual Urgent Care Medical emergencies—including chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, -related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in personal harm or harm to others—require immediate care. Please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency care location. You can also visit one of our emergency care locations Urgent Care Visits For conditions not treated at Virtual Urgent Care, schedule an in-person urgent care visit. Learn More About Urgent Care Other serious conditions require an in-person evaluation and therefore cannot be treated through Virtual Urgent Care. Some examples are listed below. Care for these conditions is available through an in-person visit. Acute Injury broken or fractured bones deep or large cuts or lacerations Behavioral or Mental Health Concerns drug overdose mental status changes psychiatric disorders Bleeding Issues blood in the stool coughing up blood unexplained vaginal bleeding and hemorrhage vomiting blood Cardiac and Respiratory Symptoms chest pain or palpitations shortness of breath Chronic Conditions and Symptoms cancer treatment complications sickle cell disease symptoms chronic pain syndrome Conditions That Require a Physical Exam ear pain genital and rectal complaints Neurologic Symptoms acute vision changes severe headache stroke-like symptoms , such as sudden-onset weakness, numbness, or tingling Severe Pain abdominal pain chronic pain ear pain or infection Women’s Health and Men’s Health complications breast complaints genital complaints If you or your child requires an in-person doctor’s visit, we can help you and schedule an appointment. Follow-up care for children is provided through Behavioral Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone The Behavioral Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides treatment and support for people and families who are experiencing mental health disorders across all age ranges. We also provide care to patients in their preferred language, both in person and virtually. Our care providers are committed to inclusivity and respect the needs of the diverse population we serve, which includes the LGBTQ+ community If you or a loved one need urgent mental healthcare, services are available at the . Intensive therapy and care are also available through our inpatient psychiatric unit at is the primary location for mental healthcare services at the Family Health Centers. Integrated and Collaborative Care This type of short-term care is provided in your primary care office and with the collaboration of your primary care providers. To use this service, you must be referred by your primary care provider. Licensed social workers provide collaborative behavioral healthcare at the following locations: Community Medicine Behavioral Health Program Licensed social workers, psychiatrists, and psychiatric nurse practitioners provide mental health services at homeless shelters through the , we offer behavioral health and psychiatric treatment for students in over 20 public schools in Brooklyn, Queens, and Manhattan through our School Health Program. Mental health services are provided by licensed social workers at schools served by the program, and if medication intervention is indicated, students are referred to a psychiatrist or psychiatric nurse practitioner. Behavioral Health Services at Sunset Terrace Family Health Center At Sunset Terrace Family Health Center, our team of physicians, psychiatric nurse practitioners, social workers, psychologists, and mental health counselors helps restore, maintain, and enhance the wellbeing of adults, adolescents, and children who have mental health disorders. Parental Consent for Behavioral Health Care For a child to receive medical care through the Behavioral Health Program, parents are required to complete a consent form. Behavioral Health Consent Form for Minors Serving as the hub for outpatient behavioral health services, this clinic offers specialized outpatient care for children as young as 5 years old, adolescents, and adults, including older adults. The clinic offers specialized programs specialized programs in trauma-informed dyadic treatment, early psychosis, substance use disorders, and crisis recovery. Adult Behavioral Health Consent Form Adults are required to complete a consent form before receiving behavioral health services. Behavioral Health Consent Form for Adults For information about eligibility for services, please call 718-437-5210 Care is provided for people experiencing , mood and , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in , insomnia, and and psychotic disorders, as well as other mental health conditions. Substance Use Treatment At Sunset Terrace Family Health Center, we provide therapy for people who have been diagnosed with a mental health condition and are also coping with substance use issues such as opioid addiction and alcoholism. Medical treatment for substance use disorder is available through our adult medicine primary care program Specialized Mental Health Programs Specialized mental health programs are also available at Sunset Terrace Family Health Center for patients with chronic suicidality, serious mental illness, and first-break psychosis. Clinical Education Programs The Sunset Terrace Family Health Center hosts many trainees, from undergraduates through postdoctorates, and many of them go on to pursue careers in public and community mental health. We are also home to core training programs in psychiatry and psychology. Find out more about our psychology externship training program, for students enrolled in a clinical, counseling, or school psychology doctoral program, and our psychology internship. We also host a psychiatry residency program Group Sessions Our clinic offers many groups, both in person and virtual, with topics that include wellness, resilience, and health. Learn more. Early Childhood Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Our Early Childhood Services, part of , help prepare children for school and support parents and caregivers in building stable and caring relationships with their children. Our services include the following programs: Early Childhood Centers We operate four full-day, year-round early childhood centers for children. Our teachers and caregivers create supportive, stimulating, and enriching environments. Locations include: Magical Years Early Childhood Center: 220 60th Street, Brooklyn NY, 11220; 718-439-0450 Seventh Avenue Preschool: 4419 Seventh Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11220; 347-377-5160 Warren Street Center for Children and Families: 343 Warren Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11201; 718-237-9578 14th Street Preschool: 199 14th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11215; 347-377-5026 We also spearhead the Sunset Park Early Learning Network, which aims to expand the capacity of early childhood services in the community and improve the quality of services to ensure that all children enter kindergarten ready to learn. The ELN offers group professional development, on-site coaching and child development associate credentialing for day care centers, family childcare providers, and home visitors as well as family, friend, and neighbor caregivers. For more information, please call 917-921-9622 We also operate the Family Child Care Network (FCCN), providing subsidized childcare slots as well as additional resources to enhance the learning environment of family child care from birth until age 3. The FCCN works together with providers and families to provide the highest quality care for our communities’ children. For more information, please call Family Literacy Our family literacy programs support parents in their role as their child’s first teacher. The Reach Out and Read early literacy program encourages parents to read aloud to their children. These language-rich interactions help stimulate brain development in young children. Sunset Park ParentChild+ is an early literacy, school readiness, and parenting program that encourages parents to talk, read, and play with their young children to support school readiness. A companion program, ParentChild+ Family Child Care, supports home-based childcare providers in their role of helping young children prepare for school. VROOM provides tips for caregivers of young children on everyday activities that support child development. Caregivers can receive VROOM tips via direct texts and the free VROOM app. For more information on Family Literacy programs, please call 347-377-4185 Parenting Supports The Healthy Families Program is a home visiting program for pregnant women and new parents that supports positive parent–child bonding and relationships. Programming promotes child and family health, development, and safety. It also helps build early literacy and school readiness skills for children. For more information, please call 347-377-5093 347-573-1574 HealthySteps is a pediatric primary care program that promotes the health, wellbeing, and school readiness of babies and toddlers. The HealthySteps Specialist, a child development expert, addresses common and complex concerns, such as feeding, behavior, sleep, attachment, maternal depression, access to social supports beyond healthcare, and adapting to life with a baby or young child. For more information, please call 646-735-1213 The Video Interaction Project (VIP) provides parenting support sessions that occur during pediatric well-child visits for babies 0-3 years. VIP offers books, toys, video-recordings, and expert advice to help children learn and grow. For more information, please call 718-630-7171 Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s Community-Based Programs provide social, educational, and emotional support for families, children, and older adults. From nutrition programs for women who are to adult day care programs for older adults, our Community-Based Programs aim to meet the needs of the entire family.  Services are available in multiple languages. Our main location is the Family Support Center at 6025 Sixth Avenue in Brooklyn. Services and programs are also available at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone locations and other sites throughout Brooklyn. We focus on five areas of service: youth and adolescent services community development For more information on any services provided through our Community-Based Programs, please call NYU Langone Financial Reports NYU Langone releases quarterly financial reports. Our latest disclosure, available below, covers the 12 months that ended August 31, 2024, and encompasses the full scope of the enterprise, including our two medical schools, more than 300 outpatient locations, NYU Langone Hospitals, and Long Island Community Hospital, which remains a separate corporation until its anticipated merger in the spring of 2025. This updated report also accounts for our dedication to biomedical research and the expansion of life sciences in New York. NYU Langone’s culture of exceptionalism—which translates to safe and quality care for patients in their local communities—continues to drive volume, leading to a consistent sustainable growth rate and operational success. In the 12 months ended August 31, 2024, NYU Langone recorded an operating margin of 3.0 percent as operating revenues grew to $14.2 billion, marking a significant 14.2 percent increase from the prior year. 2024 Fiscal Year Annual Report Dates: August 31, 2023, to August 31, 2024 Released: November 18, 2024 Government & Community Affairs at NYU Langone Health At NYU Langone Health, we are on the front lines in creating a healthier New York. Our physicians, researchers, and staff are committed to bringing the highest-quality healthcare and services to communities across the New York metropolitan area. We engage with city, state, and federal officials, community boards, and community-based organizations to create partnerships and synergies that enhance the vibrancy of the communities our patients reside in. We collaborate with local organizations through partnerships to provide services, programs, and events to the community at large. Government Affairs NYU Langone’s Office of Government and Community Affairs serves as a primary liaison between government and elected officials at the city, state, and federal level. The office closely monitors and analyzes important legislation, regulations, and budget proposals and advocates on issues as they affect NYU Langone. We manage relationships with government officials in New York City; Albany, NY; and Washington, DC, and also secure available government funds for various programs and projects. We coordinate visits to NYU Langone facilities for government officials to meet with our leadership and tour areas of interest, and ensure compliance with lobbying laws at the city, state, and federal level. We also work with local elected officials and community leaders to address health issues of concern to the community, and maintain working relationships with local community boards. We focus on community outreach to share information and resources and to increase awareness of NYU Langone in neighborhoods throughout New York City. NYU Langone sponsors numerous events supporting local nonprofits, community-based organizations, neighborhood associations, and local community groups. Events range from sponsorship and coordination of health fairs to support for annual events and participation in cultural and ethnic celebrations. We are proud to support and partner with these organizations, which are the bedrock of the communities we serve. Other efforts in the community include coordinating and collaborating with internal departments to participate in community events such as health fairs, seminars and informational workshops lead by health experts, community family days, and more. Through the we partner with community-based organizations to provide a range of services to children and families in need. Our office also works with NYU Langone’s on community outreach efforts to increase awareness about the safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines. NYU Langone Health in the Community Report Our NYU Langone Health in the Community report highlights our activities and contributions to benefit the communities we serve and showcases how we deliver care and community programs to support health across the New York metropolitan area and beyond. Departments throughout NYU Langone work to improve all aspects of community health, from annual screenings, chronic disease management, mental and behavioral healthcare, and vaccination, to social determinants of health, such as housing and food security. We’re proud to share stories of community programs offered for people of all ages, from early childhood to seniors. Read our Members of the Office of Government and Community Affairs team include the following: Joseph Lhota Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief of Staff 212-263-3474 Gilda Ventresca-Ecroyd Vice President, Government and Community Affairs 212-404-4077 Ashley Morrissey Senior Director, State Affairs 212-404-4086 Sara Ostolaza Manager, Community and City Affairs 347-453-9780 Patricia Barraga Senior Government Affairs Analyst 347-213-1182 Rebecca Berger 212-404-4082 James Toussaint Policy Analyst 212-404-4088 Jonathan Martinez Community Affairs Coordinator 929-453-0660 Elizabeth Roman Executive Assistant 212-404-4081 Myles Davis Advisor 917-881-5963 Chief Executive Officer and Dean Robert I. Grossman, MD, is chief executive officer of and dean of . Nationally recognized as a top healthcare executive, he leads one of the largest health systems in the Northeast—employing more than 52,000 people, including over 12,000 clinicians, stretching across 6 inpatient facilities and over 300 locations throughout the New York City region and in Florida. His visionary leadership has transformed NYU Langone into one of the best academic medical centers in the United States, as evaluated annually by independent organizations such as Vizient, Inc. the Leapfrog Group ( Best Hospitals Best Medical Schools ), and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Vizient recognized NYU Langone Health as No. 1 in the nation for quality and patient safety three years in a row. Innovation has been a hallmark of Dr. Grossman’s leadership of NYU Langone and NYU Grossman School of Medicine since his tenure began in 2007. This includes establishing an accelerated three-year MD pathway for select medical students—making NYU Grossman School of Medicine the first nationally ranked medical school to enable medical students to graduate in three years—and implementing full-tuition scholarships for medical students. For his achievements as dean, the school was named after him in 2019. Most recently, Dr. Grossman was the driving force behind the creation of NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine—a partnership between NYU and NYU Langone—the only medical school in the U.S. that offers a three-year MD degree focused on primary care and full-tuition scholarships. In July 2023, the school was renamed in honor of Dr. Grossman’s leadership. Each of these groundbreaking initiatives was fueled by Dr. Grossman’s collaborations with the Board of Trustees and institutional leadership to increase NYU Langone’s revenue from $2 billion in 2007 to more than $14.2 billion in 2024, including more than $5 billion in philanthropy since 2007. NYU Langone’s research awards from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) have grown from $129 million to $820 million over the past 14 years. Dr. Grossman has been at the forefront of applying a data-driven approach to healthcare, with the aim of improving patient outcomes, streamlining clinical workflows, and enhancing medical decision-making. The institution uses a signature dashboard that tracks over 800 metrics, bringing transparency and accountability to everyone, so that providers can achieve better outcomes for patients and for the health system overall. NYU Langone operates with one playbook and one standard of care at every location. Early in his tenure, Dr. Grossman launched a decade-long Campus Transformation Plan, an infrastructure modernization program that has expanded NYU Langone’s footprint to more than 14 million square feet of clinical, educational, and research space across its campuses throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Among its capstone projects were the Science Building , NYU Langone’s largest research facility; , the only inpatient facility in New York City with exclusively private rooms; , the city’s first new children’s hospital in many years; and an Energy Building that meets 70 percent of the power needs of NYU Langone’s midtown campus. Under Dr. Grossman’s leadership, achieved the status of a Comprehensive Cancer Center from the National Cancer Institute, part of the NIH. He also propelled NYU Langone’s unprecedented growth into Brooklyn and Long Island, forging hospital affiliations that created , now two of the highest rated hospitals for quality and safety in the nation. Most recently, NYU Langone affiliated with Long Island Community Hospital, creating a clinically integrated healthcare network between the two organizations. In 2018, Dr. Grossman—together with Kenneth G. Langone, chairman of NYU Langone’s Board of Trustees—was named to Time magazine’s inaugural Health Care 50 list of the 50 most influential healthcare leaders who changed the state of healthcare in America. Dr. Grossman’s transformative leadership, including his steely piloting of the institution as it recovered from the devastation of Superstorm Sandy, was chronicled in William A. Haseltine’s book World Class: A Story of Adversity, Transformation, and Success at NYU Langone Health A prolific and highly respected scientist, Dean Grossman was awarded the Javits Neuroscience Investigator Award by the NIH in 1999 for his work on multiple sclerosis. He was a member (1995–2000) and chairman (1997–2000) of the Diagnostic Radiology Study Section at the NIH, was appointed to the NIH’s National Advisory Council for Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (2003–2007), and, in 2004, became the first recipient of the Outstanding Contributions in Research Award, given annually by the Foundation of the American Society of Neuroradiology in recognition of lifelong accomplishment and consistent excellence in clinical neuroscience. In 2010, Dean Grossman received the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine’s Gold Medal for his pioneering research in magnetic resonance in medicine and biology. In addition, he received the Lifetime Achievement of the Emeritus Class from Tulane University (2019), was named a Distinguished Graduate of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine (2010), and was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Bordeaux, France (2010). Most recently, Dean Grossman received the American Society of Neuroradiology Gold Medal for his contributions to the field of neuroradiology (2021), was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences for excellence and leadership (2022), and received the Distinguished Alumni Award from Tulane University (2024). Dean Grossman is a passionate educator and widely published scholar. He has trained more than 100 fellows, many of whom occupy prominent positions worldwide, and has authored 340 publications and 5 books, including Neuroradiology: The Requisites Dean Grossman received his bachelor’s degree in biology from Tulane University and his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania, where he was elected to Alpha Omega Alpha. He completed his internship at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, two years of a neurosurgery residency at the University of Pennsylvania, a radiology residency at the University of Pennsylvania, and a two-year fellowship in neuroradiology at Massachusetts General Hospital. Dr. Grossman is board-certified in radiology and neuroradiology. Dean Grossman joined NYU Langone in 2001 as the Louis Marx Professor of Radiology; chair of the Department of Radiology ; and professor of neurology, neurosurgery, and physiology and neuroscience. In his previous position at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, he was a professor of radiology, neurosurgery, and neurology; chief of neuroradiology; and associate chairman of radiology. Sitemap gayathri 2024-11-19T17:45:34+00:00 Faculty NYU Langone Health strives to provide increasingly high-quality care to the communities it serves. Undertaking projects to enhance its physical spaces and expand service offerings demonstrates NYU Langone’s commitment to ensure New Yorkers can get world-class healthcare close to home. In New York State, hospitals must submit Certificate of Need (CON) applications, and in certain instances a Health Equity Impact Assessment (HEIA), to gain approval for such projects. According to the New York State Department of Health , an HEIA aims to determine how a facility’s proposed project affects the accessibility and delivery of healthcare services. In addition, it seeks to demonstrate whether it will enhance health equity and contribute to mitigating health disparities in the project's service area for medically underserved groups. An independent entity conducts the HEIAs for NYU Langone’s proposed projects, which ensures objective assessments of the potential impacts. The HEIAs also incorporate input from patients and community-based organizations. Below are links to the HEIA documents and CONs filed with the New York State Department of Health. Consolidating Transplant Services at NYU Langone’s Manhattan Campus Transplant Consolidation HEIA Transplant Consolidation HEIA Data Tables Transplant Consolidation CON Relocating the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center Pediatric Congenital Heart Center HEIA Pediatric Congenital Heart Center HEIA Data Tables Pediatric Congenital Heart Center CON Expanding the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit Pediatric Intensive Care Unit HEIA Pediatric Intensive Care Unit HEIA Data Tables Pediatric Intensive Care Unit CON Relocating the Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center HEIA Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center HEIA Data Tables Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center CON Creating an Ambulatory Surgery Center for Orthopedic Services in Westchester County Westchester Ambulatory Surgery Center HEIA Westchester Ambulatory Surgery Center HEIA Data Tables Westchester Ambulatory Surgery Center CON Relocating the Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic HEIA Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic HEIA Data Tables Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic CON Community Health Needs Assessment & Community Service Plan In addition to providing the highest quality care for patients at our primary locations, we at NYU Langone Health aim to apply our scientific and clinical strengths to support the health needs of the broader community. Growing out of our Community Health Needs Assessment and aligning with the New York State Prevention Agenda and New York City and Nassau County public health priorities, our three-year implementation plan, also known as our Community Service Plan, focuses on preventing chronic conditions by promoting healthy eating and food security, decreasing tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke, addressing the intersection of health and housing, supporting the self-management of chronic conditions, and connecting people to resources that address social and health risk factors. The Community Service Plan also promotes healthy women, infants, and children through parenting programs that connect families to needed resources, and through early childhood and teen pregnancy prevention programs. We also have an emerging portfolio of projects that focus on promoting a healthy and safe environment by reducing falls among vulnerable populations. Through the partnerships outlined in our Community Service Plan, we seek to create a platform for evidence-based health promotion and disease prevention at the neighborhood level, including the Lower East Side and Chinatown, in Manhattan; Sunset Park and Red Hook, in Brooklyn; and in Hempstead, Long Island. Our community-based and government partners span early childhood education settings and schools, as well as primary care, housing, and community settings, such as faith-based organizations, and local businesses. Read our complete Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment/Community Service Plan Read the previous Community Health Needs Assessment Read the Executive Summary in Simplified Chinese Traditional Chinese Read NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s previous Implementation Plan Read the supplemental report on the Community Health Needs and Assets in the Village of Hempstead Find quick reference data summaries for Hempstead Lower East Side and Chinatown Red Hook Sunset Park Read a summary of the Assessment of Needs and Priorities of the Brooklyn Arab American Community in At NYU Langone Health, ensuring a healthy environment is central to delivering on all three of our mission-critical areas: to serve, teach, and discover. Climate change is a global health issue, and our sustainability program was created to reduce our environmental impacts, promote health and resiliency through building design and better procurement, and advocate for climate leadership in healthcare. These four pillars are underscored by an effort to build a culture of sustainability within our organization, and to embed these priorities as a part of everyday operations and decision making. Our program includes dozens of initiatives across the NYU Langone Health led by our Real Estate Development and Facilities department, and is part of a collaborative effort among individuals and teams who are implementing best practices and working towards greener operations across the health system. From Building and Environmental Services staff to faculty, clinicians, and students, and from hospital operations to supply chain, finance, and construction—every NYU Langone Health member has a role to play in achieving our goals. Our Sustainability Commitments Climate change solutions must be rooted within our businesses and the communities we serve. It is crucial for us to work alongside industry and governmental agencies to accelerate climate progress and promote health equity. NYU Langone is committed to becoming a carbon neutral health system by 2050, with an interim goal of 50 percent greenhouse gas emissions reduction by 2030. Reducing our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions offers benefits such as improving the quality of air in the communities we serve, increasing our resiliency, and making our buildings healthier and more comfortable for our patients and staff. This goal is part of our commitment with the U.S. Department of Human and Health Services’ Health Sector Pledge, where we’ve joined other leading health systems to strengthen national healthcare resilience to climate change. We are also a proud and longstanding participant in the New York City Carbon Challenge. Since 2005, we have achieved a 39 percent reduction in carbon emissions for our fully owned portfolio and major sites under the New York City Carbon Challenge framework. In 2019, we became the first and only New York City–based member of the Health Care Climate Council , a national leadership body of health systems committed to protect their patients and employees from the health impacts of climate change. This platform allows us to leverage our voice, alongside the other 21 health system participants, to drive innovative climate solutions as well as policy and market transformation. As part of the council, we also participate in the Health Care Climate Challenge We participate in Practice Greenhealth’s Healthier Hospitals: Safer Chemicals Challenge to reduce the use of chemicals in our furniture and cleaning product and to eliminate the use of mercury. Sustainability Awards and Recognition After Superstorm Sandy in 2012, NYU Langone began overhauling its infrastructure with an emphasis on resilience, energy efficiency, and green building design. Our hospital locations on the east side of Manhattan and their surrounding buildings are now the first in the world to receive the highest-level Platinum certification under both Performance Excellence in Electricity Renewal (PEER) and Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) under the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). In 2018, our east side Manhattan hospitals achieved PEER Platinum certification recognizing its power system efficiency and energy reliability. The following year, the both earned the highest Platinum level of USGBC’s LEED certification, an internationally recognized standard for innovative sustainable building design, construction, operations, and maintenance. We have earned more than 65 energy and environmental excellence awards for our sustainability achievements. In 2022, we received 11 environmental excellence awards from Practice Greenhealth and Healthcare without Harm, including the Top 25, Climate Resilience and Leadership, and Greening the OR Circle of Excellence awards. Annual Environmental Sustainability Report To help ensure transparency as we work towards these ambitious goals, we are pleased to share our annual environmental sustainability report. This report communicates more about our commitments, programs, and accomplishments to date and future plans across the four pillars of our sustainability program: reducing our impact, increasing resiliency, creating healthy environments, and advocating for a sustainable healthcare future. Read our 2024 Annual Sustainability Report Sustainability and Healthcare Database Health and environmental sustainability are fundamentally connected and are essential for the livelihood of our communities. NYU Langone and NYU researchers have recognized this connection and have led by example through academic studies on this topic. Our publicly available compiles publications on the intersection of public health, sustainability, pollution, and climate change. If you have questions or want to learn more about NYU Langone’s commitment to sustainability, please email us at sustainability@nyulangone.org The campus transformation project is dramatically reshaping NYU Langone Health through a combination of major new construction, renovation, and expansion. Under the leadership of our dean and CEO Dr. Robert I. Grossman Vicki Match Suna , AIA, vice dean for real estate development and facilities, this is the most sweeping revitalization in NYU Langone’s history. Our strategy is to reorganize and optimize NYU Langone’s physical resources and accommodate future growth on the main campus (the area bounded by 34th Street to the north, 30th Street to the south, the FDR Drive to the east, and First Avenue to the west) and beyond. Our vision is to expand NYU Langone south along First Avenue and to nearby city streets, and further still into other boroughs of New York City and the greater New York metropolitan area. NYU Langone Health’s First Avenue location. The vision behind our campus transformation calls for: upgrading, standardizing, and integrating acute patient care services in the to offer a world-class, seamless patient experience across both facilities on the main campus extending ambulatory care , administration, and housing resources to the surrounding neighborhood and region concentrating and expanding research and education efforts primarily in the southeast corner of the main campus, with further growth extending to sites off-campus as well maintaining a robust and scalable infrastructure to meet NYU Langone’s energy and infrastructure needs now and in the future The overarching goal of this campus transformation is to uphold our mission of being a world-class, patient-centered, integrated academic medical center. Building the Helen L. & Martin S. Kimmel Pavilion Building Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital Building the Energy Building Transforming Tisch Hospital Building the Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services Building the Science Building Ambulatory Care Expansion Art Program NYU Langone’s mission to serve, teach, and discover is achieved through the leadership of a team of executives, department chairs deans trustees and overseers Learn more about our executive leadership team. RobertI. Grossman, MD Dean and Chief Executive Officer Steven B. Abramson, MD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Education, Faculty, and Academic Affairs, Chief Academic Officer Dafna Bar-Sagi, PhD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Science, Chief Scientific Officer Andrew W. Brotman, MD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Clinical Affairs and Strategy, Chief Clinical Officer Fritz François, MD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief of Hospital Operations Elizabeth Golden Executive Vice President for Communications, Marketing, Government and Community Affairs JosephJ. Greco, MD Executive Vice President and Chief of Hospital Operations, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Annette Johnson, JD, PhD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, General Counsel Grace Y. Ko Executive Vice President for Development and Alumni Affairs Joseph J. Lhota Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief Financial Officer and Chief of Staff Vicki Match Suna, AIA Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Real Estate Development and Facilities Nader Mherabi Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief Digital and Information Officer Bret J. Rudy, MD Executive Vice President and Chief of Hospital Operations, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Nancy Sanchez Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Human Resources Trustees & Overseers NYU Langone Health has the highest quality of care and patient safety rankings of any healthcare organization in the country. Evaluated across all key measures and ratings of healthcare performance, we are the top academic health system in the nation. Recognized for Outstanding Quality and Safety NYU Langone is recognized by Vizient, Inc. as the No. 1 comprehensive academic medical center in the United States. Vizient, the nation’s largest healthcare performance improvement organization, examined 115 comprehensive academic medical centers. Our top rankings for quality and safety reflect our commitment to continual improvement. For the past 11 years, NYU Langone has received top rankings for overall patient safety and quality of care from Vizient. In 2024, NYU Langone was recognized as the top performer in the Bernard A. Birnbaum, MD, Quality Leadership Annual Ranking for demonstrating high quality and safety performance. Each year, we are recognized for providing outstanding care from other independent healthcare performance improvement organizations. The Leapfrog Group has routinely named NYU Langone among the top hospitals nationwide for quality and safety, and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has honored us with a five-star rating for safety, quality, and patient experience. In addition, NYU Langone’s were each awarded an “A” in the spring 2024 Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade, a national distinction that recognizes NYU Langone’s achievement in providing the highest level of patient care across the health system and an honor attained by only 30 percent of hospitals across the country. Why Quality Matters Our patients can find confidence and take comfort in these independent assessments of our performance. As rigorous authorities, these organizations offer solid reassurance that NYU Langone is worthy of the trust our patients place in us. VIDEO: Dr. Ilseung Cho discusses why quality and safety matter for patients, and how Vizient rankings are a valuable resource for us to understand how NYU Langone performs compared to other healthcare systems around the country. The National Academy of Medicine defines healthcare quality as having several key components: effectiveness, efficiency, equity, patient-centeredness, safety, and timeliness. At NYU Langone, we continuously monitor more than 800 metrics, ranging from infection rates to patient experience scores, to ensure quality and safety at every level of patient care. Available to every clinician in the health system, our data dashboards provide real-time information that offers insight into the progress of our performance and helps identify opportunities for enhancement. But quality means more than just metrics. We understand that every datapoint we track represents a real outcome for those who entrust us with their care. Our top rankings for quality and safety reflect this shared commitment to continual improvement based on evidence-based medicine and institutional integrity. Top-Ranked Specialties ’s “Best Hospitals” 2024–25, including the No. 1 ranking for neurology and neurosurgery. We are tied for No. 1 for pulmonology and lung surgery. To be nationally ranked in a specialty, a hospital must excel in caring for the most ill, most medically complex patients. NYU Langone is consistently recognized for our specialty care, with 13 top-ranked specialties: : No. 1 pulmonology and lung surgery : No. 1 (tie) : No. 2 geriatrics : No. 2 (tie) : No. 3 rehabilitation : No. 4 (tie) : No. 5 gastroenterology and GI surgery : No. 9 ear, nose, and throat : No. 10 cancer : No. 17 : No. 19 (tie) Our CMS rating and rankings reflect the aggregate performance of all our hospitals—different from the way many other health systems operate. Some report only on their main hospital but not the other hospitals in the system. Awards and Recognition By making regulatory compliance a top priority, The Joint Commission—the country’s leading accreditor of healthcare organizations—awarded NYU Langone full accreditation and its Gold Seal of Approval in recognition of our commitment to safety and quality five consecutive times, most recently in 2021. We’re also recognized by The Joint Commission and the New York State Department of Health as a , meaning our team of neurologists, neurosurgeons, neuroradiologists, and specially trained nurses based at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to provide the most advanced care. The Comprehensive Stroke Center also earned the American Heart Association’s Get with the Guidelines—Stroke Gold Plus and Target: Stroke Honor Roll Elite Plus award, which recognizes our consistent compliance with quality measures for treating stroke. The Joint Commission has also recognized us for excellence in perinatal, palliative, and ventricular assist device care. Excellence in Nursing Across NYU Langone, our nurses drive exceptional patient care outcomes through their combination of clinical expertise, dedication, and compassion. Our nurses are recognized for excellence in the care they provide, receiving Magnet status for the fourth consecutive time by the American Nurses Credentialing Center. Magnet status is an honor achieved by only 9.4 percent of hospitals in the United States—and we are proud that all NYU Langone inpatient locations are Magnet designated. The prestigious recognition is one of the highest honors a healthcare institution can achieve, and speaks to exceptional teamwork and coordination not only among nurses, but among all faculty and staff. To earn Magnet designation, organizations must pass a rigorous and lengthy process that demands widespread participation from leadership and staff. Through our various educational programs, specialty certifications, awards, and advocacy efforts, our nurses prove their dedication to the health and wellbeing of our patients. At NYU Langone, our nationally recognized nurses are committed to providing world-class care and improving patient outcomes. NYU Langone’s focus on high reliability and patient safety, quality care, and continual improvement gives our nurses a strong presence as patient advocates, decision makers, and collaborative partners. NYU Langone nurses deliver the best and safest patient care by embracing collaboration with all members of a patient’s healthcare team. Our culture supports and encourages the voice of our nurses in all aspects of patient care delivery, and nurses participate in all organization-wide initiatives to ensure that patients and their families are at the center of all we do. ambulatory nursing Magnet designation mother–baby care stroke care nurse residency programs nursing research our leadership team Promoting Excellence in Nursing Our nursing mission aligns with NYU Langone’s five core values of performance, respect, integrity, diversity, and excellence, which enables our team to build on our tradition of service, to foster a culture of collaboration and teamwork, and to better meet the needs of our patients. Our nursing mission requires critical thinking in scholarly inquiry, the use of research, and ongoing development of evidence-based practice to promote new knowledge and interdisciplinary collaboration, support patient safety, and strengthen the discipline of nursing. We promote an environment of continual growth for our nurses by supporting the education and development of our nursing staff through continuing education, preceptorships, professional development opportunities, and mentorship programs. We also bestow a variety of nursing excellence awards to our nurses during Nurses’ Week celebrations at each of our hospitals. NYU Langone has one of the most educated professional nursing staff in the country. 92 percent of our registered nursing clinical staff hold a bachelor of science in nursing (BSN) degree, while nearly 9 percent hold a master of science in nursing (MSN) degree or above. 38 percent of our nurses also hold a specialty nursing certificate. At the nurse leadership level, 99 percent hold a BSN degree, 53 percent hold an MSN degree, and 10 percent hold a doctoral degree. In addition, 60 percent of our nurse leaders hold a specialty certification. Quality Care and Innovations in Ambulatory Nursing As integral members of our award-winning ambulatory care network, our nurses provide competent, safe, and compassionate care, with the emphasis on relationship building with patients and families. Our ambulatory nurses use the steps of the nursing process that include assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation so patients are educated about their health and what to expect during treatment. Many of our ambulatory care nurses hold certifications set by external national organizations in their area of expertise. Magnet Designation for Superior Nursing Care NYU Langone nurses consistently receive awards on the national level, including recognition for excellence in nursing from the American Nurses Credentialing Center’s (ANCC) Magnet Recognition Program . The Magnet designation is granted every four years to only those organizations that demonstrate sustained superiority in nursing care. NYU Langone’s have earned this distinction. recognition is an honor achieved by only 9.4 percent of all hospitals in the United States, with less than 1 percent receiving this designation 4 or more times, including Tisch Hospital. Exemplar Recognitions at Our Hospitals NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion nursing teams have received five exemplars, or examples of best practices, in the following areas: reducing mortality rates through NYU Langone’s rapid response teams, comprising nurses who deliver care immediately during emergencies interdisciplinary collaboration with our information technology teams in our electronic records system, Epic, to develop an innovative workflow for alerting clinicians if a patient has measles gender-affirming care, highlighting that NYU Langone is a leader in providing culturally competent nursing care to the our tobacco use screening program, which yields better results than any other hospital system in the country our nursing research program, citing the number of journal publications and presentations NYU Langone’s nursing teams are involved in NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital nurses have received five exemplars in the following areas: support and encouragement of nursing specialty certification interdisciplinary collaboration on improving outcomes for patients who are having same-day extensive resources used to support clinical decision-making in autonomous nursing practice screening all patients for tobacco use and offering support through our Tobacco Cessation Programs organizational structures and processes that support the use of evidence-based findings in order to implement innovative nursing practices NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s nursing teams have received two exemplars in the following areas: postoperative glucose management in patients who have had cardiac surgery that consistently outperforms national benchmarks vesicant infiltration, or wound infection, rates that are consistently below the Oncology Nursing Society’s nationally published rate We promote an environment of continual growth for our nurses by supporting the education and development of our nursing staff. These exemplars represent just a few notable examples of the highest levels of care that our nurses deliver each and every day. Leaders in Mother–Baby Care Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island are designated as Baby-Friendly Hospitals, a distinction awarded by Baby-Friendly USA in acknowledgment of our nurses’ commitment to breastfeeding support and education. The designation is awarded to less than 10 percent of hospitals in the United States. This global program recognizes hospitals and birthing centers that provide an outstanding level of obstetric care. Hospitals that achieve the Baby-Friendly designation must undergo a rigorous on-site survey as well as implement all of the Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding, which represent practices that have been shown to increase breastfeeding initiation and duration, and meet the requirements of purchasing breast milk substitutes. Becoming a Baby-Friendly facility is a comprehensive, detailed, and thorough journey toward excellence in providing evidence-based maternity care, with the goal of achieving optimal infant feeding outcomes and mother–baby bonding.> Specialized Stroke Care Our nurses are proud to provide the most advanced care at NYU Langone’s , which is certified by The Joint Commission. As core members of our stroke team, our nurses are often the first to respond during a stroke, where our teams mobilize rapidly to immediately treat patients with stroke. Nurses in our stroke and neurointensive care units are specially trained to coordinate care from stroke risk identification through treatment and recovery, and are able to administer the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Stroke Scale for acute stroke assessment. Along with extensive training in stroke protocols, our nurses also participate in regular stroke conferences, and many hold advanced certifications in stroke nursing. At each of our inpatient hospitals, we host residency programs for all newly licensed nurse graduates who hold a BSN. The program supports the transition from an academic to a clinical setting by incorporating interactive classroom instruction with hands-on clinical training. By embracing collaboration with all members of a patient’s healthcare team, our nurses deliver the best and safest care. The program emphasizes three components: leadership, patient safety, and professional responsibilities. As a member of the nursing staff on an assigned unit, nurse residents are provided with clinical support and mentoring relationships to help them develop their abilities and confidence as a professional. Distinction in Nursing Research NYU Langone supports a culture of inquiry through research and evidence-based practices among nurses by providing programs and services designed to elevate and enrich their research and scholarly achievements. Every technique, procedure, and skill performed by our nurses is based on contemporary scientific evidence, allowing our nurses to provide exceptional care. Nurse–scientists and researchers at our Center for Innovations in the Advancement of Care (CIAC) help sharpen research skills through online resource utilization and hands-on workshops for NYU Langone nurses. The offerings include research and scholarly skills workshops and lectures to help nurses develop effective research methods and perform literature searches using state-of-the-art electronic platforms, as well as one-on-one and small group consultation sessions that cover topics such as institutional review board submission procedures, protocol development, research design, database creation, and data analysis. Magnet reviewers cited the CIAC’s scholarly presentation and publication database an exemplar of research-related programming. A recent addition is our Nursing Science Fellowship program. This structured program provides NYU Langone nurses with the opportunity to develop their nursing science skills in an academic health system. The center also hosts quarterly nursing research forums in the spring and fall on a variety of topics, specifically tailored to nurses working across the health system. Recent topics include research on mothers who continue to express milk after their infant’s death for donation purposes, the nurse manager’s role, and the lived experiences of adult individuals from the transgender community seeking access and obtaining healthcare. Nursing research forum speakers are nurses within the NYU Langone community who are doctoral candidates or hold a PhD. These educational and informational sessions are approved for continuing nursing education credit hours and open to both the internal and external community. Annual Nursing Science Conference is the longest running hospital-based nursing science conference in the country and features nationally recognized nurse researchers and scholars who present a keynote speech. The keynote speakers continue their involvement at NYU Langone as McClure Scholars, interacting with staff before or after the conference. The conference program is approved for continuing nursing education credit hours and open to both the internal and external community. Registration is now open for the 27th Annual Nursing Science Conference For more information on the conference or any of the programs we offer, please email CIAC.Info@nyulangone.org Our Nursing Leadership at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn The Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn offers medical and surgical options to people who need assistance and guidance in their effort to reach and maintain a healthy weight. Start Your Weight Loss Journey Learn more about the surgical options we offer during a free, virtual information session. Register and view the online seminar is a serious medical condition that increases a person's risk of , and certain cancers. Losing weight and keeping it off is not always easy, and for some people, medically supervised nutrition counseling or surgery are the best way to achieve long-lasting results. The Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn provides the following treatment options: The Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn is accredited by the Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program. Our surgeons are based in Brooklyn and Staten Island, and are fluent in English, Arabic, French, Spanish, Hindi, and Urdu. Surgery is performed at Attend a Weight Loss Surgery Information Seminar Before coming to our Weight Management Program for a surgery consultation, we strongly recommend that you attend a free, online information seminar. This seminar gives you the details about bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, that you and your surgeon will use to decide which operation is right for you. Learn more about the information seminar Job Details 2025-01-07T03:55:38+00:00 000015_000015 / Virtual Interview Day – Physician Assistant – New Grads Welcome! Job ID: 000015_000015 Facility: NYU Grossman School of Medicine (SOM) Position Type: Full-Time/Regular Shift: Days and Nights Available Department: Physician Assistants, Medicine-Hospital Med Division (S2057) Apply for This Position Apply as Current Employee Virtual Interview Day Physician Assistant – New Grads Welcome! We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant Internal Medicine – Bellevue. Day and Night shifts available!  Seeking individuals who have a passion in servicing underserved populations. In this role, the successful candidate Responsible for provision, coordination, and assurance of comprehensive medical care using sound medical knowledge and pertinent standards of care, performance of therapeutic, corrective, and prescriptive measures on the designated inpatient or outpatient population, assume delegatory responsibilities assigned by supervising physician privileged as Medical Staff of NYU Medical Center. Job Responsibilities: Educates patient and family to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns. Supports the mission, philosophy, standards, goals and objectives of the institution, department and clinical service. Plans and organizes care to meet individual patient needs and to ensure appropriate clinical resource utilization per protocols, pathways, and other means. Works collaboratively with the interdisciplinary team including the attending physician to develop and implement the therapeutic plan of care for a group of patients and ensure communication with family members. Participates in the development and revision of interdisciplinary and hospital standards, patient and family education materials as relevant to area of practice and expertise. Works collaboratively with the attending physician to maintain timely and appropriate communication with family members, house staff, other disciplines and ancillary services. Provides consultation about the therapeutic regimen to the nursing staff responsible for the patients care in the hospital setting. Facilitates the continuity of care across the continuum of services, e.g. home care, other facilities, appointments with MDs etc. Facilitates patients throughput and efficient process during patients admission and discharge. Demonstrates knowledge of the organizations Core Values and incorporates them into the performance of responsibilities. Participates in designated activities related to professional physician assistant practice standards. Functions as a respectful member of the health care team. Promotes own professional growth and development in clinical role. Maintains current expertise in area of practice. Maintains annual CME requirement for re-appointment and privileging. Maintains PA board certification. Serves as a clinical expert and resource for the education of peers and other health professionals. Participates in the development and monitoring of patient outcomes per established practice protocols for purposes of quality and performance improvement. Uses evidence-based health care literature to advise and support appropriate practice changes within the designated service. Works collaboratively with nursing and other disciplines in the development and implementation of clinical studies within the area of expertise. Assists in the preparation, implementation, and evaluation of research protocols when applicable. Monitors and trends the cost effectiveness of the position, particularly as it relates to the efficiency and performance indicators established for the service. Coordinates implementation of clinical research studies or clinical trials, including patient screening, enrollment and data collection. At least 2 years of clinical rotation in various medical, surgical and other specialty areas. Previous experience as a physician assistant or physician assistant fellowship experience ispreferred. Evidence of excellent interpersonal skills, effective communication skills, creative problem solvingand excellent critical thinking skills. Previously demonstrated ability to facilitate group processes and work cohesively andcollaboratively as member of the interdisciplinary team. Physical stamina, manual dexterity, visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities.Membership in professional specialty organizations desirable. Prescribes in-patient and discharge medications according to New York State law, including controlled substances with DEA authorization. Prescribes medical equipment, devices, physical and occupational therapy, and home health services per practice protocol. Practices as a member of the allied health staff according to the rules and regulations of the Medical Staff and bylaws as outlined in the delineation of privileges. Performs delegated clinical duties effectively and efficiently. Evaluates treatment and health care plans for effectiveness and modifies per clinical standards and practice protocols. Minimum Qualifications: To qualify you must have a Physician Assistant Bachelor’s Degree (BA-PA) NCCPA Board Certification ACLS, PALS, NRP Provider (Neonatal Resuscitation Program) NALS per delineation of privileges. Required Licenses: Physician Assistant Lic-NYS, Ntl Com Cert Physician Asst, Physician Assistant Lic-NYS, Ntl Com Cert Physician Asst Preferred Qualifications: Membership in pertinent professional organizations preferred. Qualified candidates must be able to effectively communicate with all levels of the organization. NYU Grossman School of Medicine provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Grossman School of Medicine is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s EEO policies, please click here . Please to view the Federal “EEO is the law” poster or visit https://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/ofccpost.htm for more information. To view the Pay Transparency Notice, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $120,000 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Salaries shown on independent jobs related websites reflect market averages and do not represent information obtained directly from NYU Langone. We invite and encourage each candidate to discuss salary/hourly specifics during the application and hiring process. Read More About This Job Share this job: Save this job View Job Cart Related Job Listings Other Jobs That May Interest You Physician Assistant - Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Physician Assistants Physician Assistant or Nurse Practitioner - Non-invasive Cardiology - Manhattan - 10hr Days Physician Assistant or Acute Care Nurse Practitioner - Medical ICU About NYU Langone Health Be Where Everyone Is Dedicated to Exceptional Care NYU Langone is a world-class, patient-centered, integrated academic medical center with Magnet®-recognized status by the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC). Our trifold mission to care, teach, and discover is achieved daily through NYU Langone’s diverse and inclusive culture devoted to excellence across the organization. Here, you can advance your career supported by exceptionally talented faculty and staff in an environment where everyone works together to deliver the best possible outcomes for our patients. Our Hiring Process Joining Our Team Get ready to start your career journey at NYU Langone, where cutting-edge research meets compassionate care, and discover how you can contribute to shaping the future of medicine. Step 1 Apply Online The NYU Langone hiring process begins with you applying through our online portal. Be sure to update and upload your resume. Shortly after you submit your application, you will receive an email confirmation. Ten days after applying you will receive a talent assessment to be completed. Step 2 Schedule Interviews If selected to continue the interview process, HR will reach out via phone or email first. Then, depending on your position, they will schedule an interview with unit managers or team members. You are encouraged to dress professionally for all interviews. Step 3 Receive Offer If you successfully complete the interview process and are identified as a finalist for the position, we will require that you complete a professional reference process. After evaluating the completed references, a decision will be made on who will receive a preliminary offer. If you receive a preliminary offer, HR will start the onboarding process with an agreed-upon tentative start date. Step 4 Training & Orientation You will be contacted by an onboarding specialist who will work with you on your pre-boarding requirements. Once fully cleared, we will ask you to complete compliance orientation regulatory training. On your first day, you will attend an online required orientation to acclimate to the health system and report to your new department based on instructions provided by your hiring manager. Hear From Our Team Joseph O. Jane F. Noa L. Victoria L. Nazneen H. Refrigeration Engineer Helper In my role, I provide a favorable atmosphere for our patients, visitors, employees, and students by ensuring their safety against fire hazards and by maintaining conducive temperatures throughout the seasons. I'm proud to work alongside my teammates to provide excellent service at a world-class organization that offers great opportunities to deserving candidates. Jan 2018 Security Officer Nov 2022 Dental Assistant NYU Langone Health is a great place to work. I enjoy working with my colleagues as a team. NYU Langone offers training programs that allow us to grow within the organization. I feel valued as  an employee. Feb 2009 Senior Nursing Assistant – Stroke Unit MAR 2022 Dental Assistant Trainee FEB 2023 Supervisor, Patient Access Center When I first began working at NYU Langone Health, I felt a sense of belonging and realized this is where I want to spend the rest of my professional career. Since joining, I've pushed myself to do well in every position I have and to advance. I not only enjoy my current role, but I also enjoy learning about new topics. I am excited to explore what else NYU Langone has to offer me in my career. Nov 2021 Access Center Representative I Aug 2022 Access Center Representative II Oct 2023 Lead Access Center Representative Sept 2024 Growing up in New York City, I was aware of the prestige that NYU Langone Health held, so I decided to pursue a career at the premier health system after graduation. I enjoy helping, treating and supporting everyday New Yorkers and feeling like I make a difference. Working here, I feel like I am able to show up as my authentic self to assist our patient community. Nov 2016 Jul 2022 I was fortunate to receive firsthand training from some of the founding team members of my department. This made my onboarding experience invaluable, and now I will get to pass on my knowledge and experience to future new hires within the department and pay it forward. The collaborative spirit at NYU Langone Health has created an excellent work culture where I can work alongside colleagues who share our same company vision to serve, teach and discover. Clinical Charge Nurse Auditor in Revenue Management Initiatives What are the employment options offered at NYU Langone? We offer different employment options to fit every schedule and talent area of interest. These options include full time, part time, per diem, internship, and temporary. What if the opportunity I’m looking for is not available? We are growing rapidly and are always looking for exceptional people to join our organization. New positions are posted to our careers site daily. How often are your jobs updated? We update our job postings daily. How do I apply for a job at NYU Langone? All applications should be submitted by clicking the “Apply for This Position” button on any job listing. How do I apply for a temporary position? To search and apply for our available temporary opportunities, use the Job Search function, which is accessible on the home page and other careers site pages. NYU Langone has various temporary opportunities, including our In-House Temporary Staffing Program. The Program is designed to place highly skilled individuals in temporary assignments throughout NYU Langone to help our departments meet their commitment to quality patient care, research, and operations. These individuals are temporary employees within NYU Langone and adhere to all NYU Langone policies and guidelines. How do I apply for an internship opportunity? Paid internship opportunities can be found on our careers site by searching via the Job Search function. Unpaid internships are organized by department. You can explore our departments at NYU Langone to find an internship opportunity that suits your educational endeavors. Additionally, please visit the internship page to learn more about our internship opportunities. Do I need an email address to apply for positions at NYU Langone? Yes, an email address is required to complete the online application. You must have an active email account, as you will receive email notifications once your application has been received. What format should my resume be in? In order for your resume to be submitted successfully, it should be in one of the following supported formats: .pdf, .txt, .rtf, .doc, .docx, or .html. How will I know if my application was successfully submitted? You will receive an email confirmation after you have completed the online application process. To ensure that the information you submitted was completed accurately, you are encouraged to log in to your account and review your information. You will also receive an email confirmation after successfully applying for a specific position. To check the status of your application, please click Current employees can check application status on the Steps for Success Career Portal 0000020_0000020 Virtual Interview Day – LPN Lake Success Job ID: 0000020_0000020 Facility: NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Shift: M-F Department: Nursing, FGP-NYU Lake Success Medical (W8398) NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) VIRTUAL LPN INTERVIEW DAY! Seeking passionate LPNs who will support our Endocrinology and Multispecialty facilities in Lake Success!  For immediate consideration, please apply online. JOB SUMMARY – Successful candidate will provide endocrinology education to diabetic patients and partner with registered nurse in assessing patients, going over treatment plans, gathering medical history, and assisting with respective screenings.  Must be compassionate, detail oriented, and the ability to multi-task. Multispeciality – The LPN will be responsible for administering all vaccinations and triaging patients at this facility.  Specialties comprise of Internal Medicine, OB/GYN, Neurology and Plastic Surgery. The FGP LPN will assist the RN in the care of patients and families by completing assigned patient care tasks, in accordance with the NYS LPN scope of practice and NYULH policy. In this role, the FGP LPN will provide competent, safe, and compassionate care with emphasis on an understanding of the challenges faced by health maintenance, illness, hospitalization, undergoing procedures, or diagnostic testing. The FGP LPN will check vital signs, recording a patients medical history, and utilize specialized skills and safety when carrying out specific tasks of patient care as assigned, including phlebotomy, point of care testing via finger stick, with certification, and electrocardiograms. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS Graduate from an accredited LPN program with current NY State LPN licensure and registration. Ability to complete multiple tasks efficiently and thrive in a team work environment which pursues a positive patient care experience. Physical stamina, manual dexterity, visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities needed also required. PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS BLS certification preferred Good comprehension of the English language NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $42,847.99 – $62,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. To view the Pay Transparency Notice, please NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island’s EEO policies, please Clinical Perfusionist, per diem Nursing Senior Nursing Attendant - Inpatient Holdings, Full-time, Evenings Mineola, NY Ambulatory Care Nurse (37.5) - OBGYN/IVF *IVF experience highly preferred* Joseph J. Lhota, executive vice president and vice dean, chief financial officer and chief of staff, is responsible for the overall financial management of NYU Langone Health, including financial operations and accounting; financial planning, analysis, and budgets; revenue cycle operations; supply chain management; decision support, strategy, and value improvement; and technology opportunities and ventures. As chief of staff, Mr. Lhota is responsible for strategic planning, business development, emergency management, and enterprise resilience for NYU Langone Hospitals and NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Additionally, he assists the dean and CEO in aligning patient care, scientific research, and medical education for an integrated, world-class academic medical center. Mr. Lhota brings more than 40 years of managerial and policymaking experience to the position. He was a candidate for mayor of the City of New York in 2013. From 2011 to 2012, Mr. Lhota served as chairman and CEO of the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA). During his tenure, mass transit service throughout the New York metropolitan area expanded. The rapid response and quick restoration of the entire MTA system after the devastation of Superstorm Sandy are recognized as a case study in excellent managerial leadership. From 2002 to 2010, he served as chief administrative officer at The Madison Square Garden Company and held senior executive positions at Cablevision Systems Corporation, including executive vice president–corporate administration, chief financial officer of Rainbow Media Enterprises, and president of Lightpath. From 1998 to 2001, Mr. Lhota served as New York City deputy mayor for operations. He was a leader of the core management team that developed and implemented the innovative strategies and initiatives that accomplished the successful turnaround of the City. As deputy mayor, he coordinated the City’s highly acclaimed response to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Prior to his appointment as deputy mayor, he was the director of the Mayor’s Office of Management and Budget and responsible for the City’s $36 billion operating budget and $45 billion capital infrastructure budget. He served as commissioner of finance for the City, as well as chairman of the board of the New York City Employees’ Retirement System and the Teachers’ Retirement System and a board member of the NYC Health and Hospitals Corporation. From 2001 to 2014, Mr. Lhota was a trustee of the City University of New York and chairman of its Fiscal Affairs and Investments Committees. Prior to his public service, Mr. Lhota spent 14 years in investment banking, serving state and local governments, healthcare institutions, and nongovernmental organizations throughout the United States, and two years in public accounting, specializing in healthcare and financial services. Mr. Lhota has served as NYU Langone’s chief of staff since 2014, and in 2024 he was additionally appointed chief financial officer. As chief of staff, he was integral in shaping NYU Langone’s strategic vision and managing an organizational culture that recognizes innovation, execution, efficiency, effectiveness, and—above all—quality performance. Mr. Lhota managed the successful integration effort of Lutheran Medical Center into , shepherded the system through the COVID-19 pandemic and other emergencies, and strengthened NYU Langone’s relationships with governments and local communities. Mr. Lhota received an undergraduate degree, cum laude, from Georgetown University and a master’s degree in business administration from Harvard Business School. As a child, Catherine S. Manno, MD , was influenced by the way in which her physician father treated his patients. And so, when she helped build the team at , she set out to provide a new level care for children. With a world-class care team and a state-of-the-art facility, she strives to make a child’s hospital experiences as normal as can be—with as much kindness as possible. Learn About Our Services for Children Meet Our Experts Dr. Arun Chopra, Pediatric Intensive Care Dr. Chanelle Coble-Sadaphal, Pediatrician and Adolescent Medicine Specialist Dr. Jason Fisher, Pediatric Surgeon Dr. Ralph S. Mosca, Director of Congenital Heart Surgery Dr. Mikhail Kazachkov, Chief of Pediatric Pulmonary Medicine Dr. Mary Pat Gallagher, Director of the Pediatric Diabetes Center Dr. Elizabeth Raetz, Director of Pediatric Hematology–Oncology Dr. Scott Rickert, Pediatric Ear, Nose, and Throat Surgeon Dr. Jeffrey Wisoff, Director of Pediatric Neurosurgery From advanced treatment options to cutting-edge clinical trials, offers personalized care for all types of cancer. Hear first-hand from cancer survivors on how this individualized approach has helped them. Learn About Perlmutter Cancer Center Meet Some of Our Patients and Experts Meet Phil and Paul: Prostate Cancer Survivors Meet Dr. Francis Arena: Medical Oncologist Meet Dr. Richard Shapiro: Surgical Oncologist, Breast and Skin Cancer Meet Dr. Dafna Bar-Sagi: Chief Scientific Officer at NYU Langone Meet Dr. Jiyoung Ahn: Associate Director, Population Sciences Technology has completely changed how we live our lives: with just a few taps, we can call a car, order a meal, or find the nearest urgent care—all on our mobile devices. It’s afforded an amazing amount of freedom, access, and efficiency. You can get a similar level of digital service you’re used to in other industries when you receive healthcare at NYU Langone. Our integrated medical record system enables seamless collaboration among doctors, staff, and patients. Using our , you have access to your medical records, anytime and anywhere. You can view test results, video chat with a doctor when you’re home sick through , make appointments for you or your family—and this is all just the beginning of our digital health offerings. From the design of our hospital, artificial intelligence harnessed in cancer research, high-precision robotic surgery, and virtual reality in medical school training, digital health has permeated our mission: to serve, to teach, and to discover. Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Team , we know that having affects more than just your physical wellbeing. It impacts many facets of your life, including how well you get around, your ability to remain in the workforce, and your mental outlook. That’s why every affected person and his or her family meet with specialists who can address the different challenges of living with multiple sclerosis. These specialists include our neurologists, psychologists, and urologists , as well as the following members of our care team. Neuropsychologist Leigh E. Charvet, PhD Dr. Charvet is a clinical neuropsychologist and director of MS research. She received her doctorate from Vanderbilt University and completed an internship at VA Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven Campus, and Yale Epilepsy Program, followed by a postdoctoral fellowship at Stony Brook Medicine. Her primary research activities focus on cognitive changes associated with MS in both adults and children, along with cognitive remediation and other approaches to improve functioning and prevent decline. Her recent research includes a program for remotely supervised transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to alleviate MS symptoms of fatigue, cognitive slowing, and motor deficits. Learn more about Dr. Charvet Nurse Practitioners Carrie Lyn Sammarco, DrNP, FNP-C, MSCN Dr. Sammarco received her doctor of nursing practice degree from the Columbia University School of Nursing. She joined the MS Comprehensive Care Center team in 2010. Dr. Sammarco specializes in the management of highly complex MS symptoms and has a special interest in incorporating mindfulness techniques into her practice. Jennifer Abate, DNP, FNP-BC, APHN-BC, MSCN Dr. Abate received her doctor of nursing practice degree from New York University Rory Meyers College of Nursing. She joined the MS Comprehensive Cancer Center in 2015. Dr. Abate has additional training in holistic and palliative care. She strives to provide individualized care plans that match each patient’s values and goals. Learn more about Dr. Abate Gabriella Brogna, AGPCNP-BC Melissa Docteur, MSN, PMHNP-BC Melissa is a board-certified nurse practitioner. She received her master of nursing practice degree from Hunter College School of Nursing. At the MS Comprehensive Cancer Center, Melissa specializes in the management of psychiatric conditions and mental health concerns that are often associated with MS. In her practice, she strives to implement a holistic approach that incorporates different psychotherapy modalities and medication management. Registered Nurses Lisa Laing, MSCN, BSN, RN Lisa is a registered nurse certified in the care of people with MS. She is the senior nurse clinician and has 25 years of experience and expertise in providing education and symptom management strategies. Richard Del Pino, BSN, RN, MSCN Richard is an MS-certified registered nurse with three years of experience working with MS patients. Richard helps provide disease education, including symptom management techniques, and assists in providing high-quality medical care to our patients. Emily Meyer, MSCN, MSN, RN Emily is an MS-certified nurse with seven years of experience working with MS patients and their families. She provides education about medications and symptom management. She is most passionate about assisting patients with care coordination and providing support to help patients achieve their highest quality of life. Laura Mendez, BSN, RN Laura joined the MS Comprehensive Care Center in 2021. As part of the team, she provides education to children, adolescents, and adults who have multiple sclerosis or other demyelinating conditions. She also educates and counsels parents and guardians on a variety of issues, including symptom management and treatment, while reminding them that MS will not be an obstacle in their child’s future. Her goal as a nurse is to explain the complexities of MS while communicating in a meaningful and caring way. Rachel Decker, LMSW As a licensed master social worker (LMSW), Rachel provides comprehensive support to individuals living with multiple sclerosis. She offers counseling and supports services tailored to each patient’s unique needs. Rachel works closely with patients and their families to connect them with valuable resources in the community, ensuring they have the tools and support necessary to navigate their journey with MS. For more information, or to make an appointment, please call NYU Langone Nursing Leadership The nursing leadership team at NYU Langone is committed to excellent patient outcomes, maintaining a high-quality nursing practice environment, and advancing our institution’s commitment to quality care. John Davidson, MBA, PA-C Senior Director of Advanced Practice Providers Kathleen DeMarco, PhD, MSN, NE-BC, CPHQ, RN System Senior Director of Nursing Wellness and Resilience Kimberley Ennis, DNP, RN Site Leader of Nursing and Patient Care Services, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Jose M. Hernandez, MS, BS, RN Vice President of Nursing and Patient Care Services, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Alice Nash, PhD, RN, NPD-BC, NEA-BC System Senior Director, Nursing Professional Development and Clinical Outcomes Rita Roberts, RN, AAS, BSN Vice President of Perioperative and Procedural Areas, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Joan Scagliola, MSN, RN, NEA-BC Senior Director of Outpatient Oncology and Hospital Ambulatory Clinical Services Jaclyn S. Schindler, PMC, MPH, BSN, FNP-BC, RN-BC Senior Director, Clinical and Nursing Operations, Faculty Group Practice Lauraine Spano-Szekely, DNP, MBA, RN, NEA-BC Vice President of Nursing and Patient Care Services, Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion Peter Rodney, RN, MSN, CNOR, NEA-BC Vice President of Perioperative Services, Manhattan Lauren Stoerger, DNP, RN, NEA-BC, CCRN-K Vice President of Nursing and Patient Care Services, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Will Winfree, MHA System Senior Director, Nursing Operations Strategy and Innovation Kathleen Evanovich Zavotsky , PhD, RN, CCRN, CEN, ACNS-BC, FAEN, FCNS System Senior Director, Nursing Research and Program Evaluation Nancy Sanchez, executive vice president and vice dean for human resources, is responsible for strategic human resource initiatives, practices, and overall operations that support more than 40,000 faculty, staff, and students across NYU Langone Health. Having started her career in human resources (HR), she has held numerous leadership roles in areas of compensation, benefits, employee and labor relations, recruitment, and training. Ms. Sanchez developed an early business philosophy: build an effective team with high service expectations and a partnership with all levels in the organization. This has been critical to her goal of designing programs and initiatives that support the growth of those who aspire to assume leadership roles, while also fostering the overall development of faculty and staff. Among her recent efforts, Ms. Sanchez has led initiatives that support the vision and mission of the health system through automation and redesign of systems and processes to simplify the administration of HR services for faculty and staff, while also ensuring compliance with the exponential increase in external regulations. As the health system continues to expand, she redesigned how HR services are provided to sustain high quality and manage new challenges. Operating under the belief that the most important and valued resource of the health system is its employees, she and her team continue to focus on talent management strategy, based on a competency model, to foster the development of faculty, staff, and leadership. In partnership with leaders throughout the organization, Ms. Sanchez promotes the continued expansion of career development programs offered to faculty and staff within the newly established NYU Langone Academy, which are both interdisciplinary, as well as focused on specific mission areas. Representing the “voice of the employee,” she continues to be a strong employee advocate within the organization by building strong relationships at all levels, as well as externally by participating in national employer councils. Ms. Sanchez holds a master of science from the Baruch/Cornell Program of Industrial and Labor Relations and a bachelor’s degree in business administration from Hofstra University. Bret J. Rudy, MD, is executive vice president and chief of hospital operations of . Dr. Rudy, who has also served as NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn’s chief medical officer, has been instrumental in the hospital’s transformation and implementation of quality initiatives and clinical programs. Dr. Rudy facilitated the integration of what was formerly known as Lutheran Medical Center with NYU Langone Health, building a full complement of medical and technological services while implementing the same high standard of patient care for the Brooklyn community. Since Dr. Rudy’s appointment in 2016, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn has received multiple quality and safety accolades, including being the only hospital in Brooklyn to receive an “A” rating in the fall 2022 Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grades and the first hospital in Brooklyn to receive Magnet designation for excellence in nursing from the American Nurses Credentialing Center. Board-certified in adolescent medicine, Dr. Rudy is professor of pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and has been on the staff of NYU Langone since 2009. Before being named to his post at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, he was vice chair of the Department of Pediatrics and spearheaded the expansion of inpatient services and quality initiatives for children’s services, as well as faculty recruitment and program development. He helped lay the groundwork for establishing pediatric subspecialty services, including pediatric gastroenterology, pulmonology, cardiology, and a pediatric hospitalist program. Dr. Rudy is internationally recognized as a leader in HIV care and research in adolescents and young adults. He led numerous nationwide studies involving novel treatment and prevention strategies. His extensive research has been presented at national and international conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals. A graduate of the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Dr. Rudy completed his residency in pediatrics and fellowships in hematology–oncology and in general pediatrics/HIV at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, where he was associate chief and then acting chief of the Craig-Dalsimer Division of Adolescent Medicine. Nader Mherabi, executive vice president and vice dean, chief digital and information officer, is responsible for all information technology (IT) activities for NYU Langone Health and for information technology’s development as a strategic organizational asset. He previously was vice president for IT product solutions and chief technology officer for NYU Langone, responsible for technology strategy, infrastructure engineering, networks, data centers, application architecture, systems deployment, and support across the institution. Mr. Mherabi currently leads NYU Langone Health’s digital transformation initiative, driving the integration of the institution’s workflows, revolutionizing the digital patient experience and clinical environment, and empowering the institution with big data and advanced analytics to improve care delivery and efficiency. Mr. Mherabi has designed and implemented many large-scale, diverse systems for NYU Langone and has extensive experience in hospital clinical systems integration, research information technology, and education systems. He has developed an operational architecture for in-house application development and integration, as well as an electronic data repository, warehouse and dashboards center, research-specific infrastructure for computation and collaboration, and scores of mid-size applications for research, education, and clinical care environments. During his more than 30 years in the information technology field, Mr. Mherabi has implemented large-scale systems for top Fortune 500 companies worldwide, such as Credit Suisse and CitiGroup, and held several prominent IT management positions including senior director at Mount Sinai–NYU Health, vice president at Credit Suisse First Boston, vice president at Citibank, and senior application developer at AT&T and Aurora Consulting. As executive vice president for development and alumni affairs, Grace Ko leads NYU Langone Health’s fundraising efforts, which support the institution’s exceptional healthcare, medical schools, and research. Ms. Ko and her team foster relationships with transformational partners and have grown donations of every level. Additionally, Ms. Ko oversees efforts to build and sustain the powerful alumni community of NYU Langone’s medical schools. Under her leadership, NYU Langone has experienced unprecedented philanthropic growth, culminating in raising over 750 million dollars annually. Since joining NYU Langone in 2007, Ms. Ko has partnered with NYU Langone’s chair of the Board of Trustees, dean and CEO, and a multitude of constituencies to raise more than 4.9 billion dollars. This work has ignited NYU Langone’s ambitious campus transformation throughout New York City, Long Island, Palm Beach, FL, and beyond. Ms. Ko’s efforts have also helped NYU Langone launch “tuition-free” programs at both medical schools, which is a major source of pride for her and the entire medical community. Ms. Ko’s work has helped the health system to develop groundbreaking medical research, bring healthcare and material support to vulnerable communities, and more. Ms. Ko has grown her department into a sophisticated, thriving team that mirrors the aspirational drive of NYU Langone. Ms. Ko has consistently earned the trust of donors, who have recently given almost one billion dollars of unrestricted philanthropic support, allowing NYU Langone to direct funds to the areas of greatest need. Flexible funding at this level is rare and a clear sign of the giving community’s confidence in our executive leadership and the institution‘s ability to find the best ways to use philanthropic funds. Ms. Ko has extensive experience designing, leading, and managing national and international campaigns. She previously served as executive director of CCS Fundraising, the largest fundraising strategy and management firm in the world, and she has experience in local and national politics. Ms. Ko holds a bachelor’s degree in English from Barnard College of Columbia University. The NYU Langone Art Program and Collection integrates artwork of the highest quality into the healing environments of new and recently renovated spaces at NYU Langone locations including our ambulatory sites. Conceived by , AIA, vice dean for real estate development and facilities, the program’s diverse portfolio of works includes paintings, photographs, sculptures, installation art, and murals, by both emerging and established professional artists. The collection is built through acquisitions, commissions, and donations of art, as well as through other visual arts-related programming consistent with NYU Langone’s mission to be a world-class, patient-centered academic medical institution. In addition to the collection, curated exhibitions of a variety of artworks are hosted at the NYU Langone Art Gallery, which is adjacent to the Sid and Ruth Lapidus Health Sciences Library at 550 First Avenue. Spot, 2018. Donald Lipski. Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Photo Credit: NYU Langone Staff The Moon’s Eyelid, 2018. Alyson Shotz. Kimmel Pavilion. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Photo Credit: Frank Corr Energy of Endless Universe (Ekpyrotic String VI), 2017. Mariko Mori. Science Building. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Photo Credit: NYU Langone Staff In recent years, art has become increasingly important to many healthcare environments. Studies have shown that art in this setting can improve patients’ overall health outcomes, treatment compliance, and quality of life. Art also helps create a positive environment for caregivers, helping to reduce stress, and for employees, improving overall workplace satisfaction. The NYU Langone Art Program fosters a welcoming, healing environment that supports our mission to treat the whole patient by addressing emotional as well as physical needs. Fred Alvarez manages the program and collection. Contact him at Fred.Alvarez@NYULangone.org Current Art Exhibitions NYU Langone’s art gallery hosts regular exhibitions throughout the year. For more information, contact Art@NYULangone.org Past Art Exhibitions Previous art exhibitions on display at NYU Langone include the following: Metamorphosis: Agents of Change This exhibition features works by Boeke Lab, and artists Jaq Chartier and Laurie Frick. Inspired by DNA, this set of works uses color to develop visual expressions of life through time. Date: November 14, 2019, to February 14, 2020 In the Deep Heart’s Core This exhibition featured artworks that convey how our emotions and feelings are so closely linked to our heart and thus may influence its health, for better or worse. Artists include: Andrea Deszö, Dan Funderburgh, Cal Lane, André Lemos Pinto, Gianni Lillo, Cara Lynch, Andrea Mastrovito, Raymond Pettibon, Antonio Riello, Kako Ueda, and Tricia Wright. January 24 to April 26, 2019 Luminosity This exhibition featured a series of artworks by Cate Woodruff that illustrated light, color, and space. They were images that are not often seen with the naked eye and appeal to our sense of perception. September 13 to November 25, 2018 Victory Over the Sun This exhibition featured an art intervention by Monika Bravo that utilizes geometry and whimsical elements to create a sense of presence. April 25 to August 31, 2018 Our Cosmic Brain This exhibition featured artworks that celebrate the universe within our brain. Artists included Julia Buntaine and Laura Jacobson. January 11 to March 31, 2018 Herbarium This exhibition featured artworks that emphasize the role of plants in medicine through the times. Artists included Tatiana Arocha, Nancy Blum, Jody Guralnick, Portia Munson, Christopher Russell, Francesco Simeti, and Joy Taylor. September 7 to December 1, 2017 Manifest This exhibition featured data-driven works of art by artist Laura Splan. The works provide a new vocabulary to manifest our feelings and emotions, which are directly linked to our bodies. June 28 to August 24, 2017 Earth Rites This exhibition featured works by artist Portia Munson, which serve as a reminder of the profound impact we have on our environment, and a call to respect it. April 13 to June 16, 2017 Invisible Origins A multifaceted artist, Dong Hee Lee creates countless patterns centered on one of life’s most complex forms—the cell. Invisible to the human eye, the cell is revealed in its most gentle and simple form, a reminder of the constant yet unseen transformations within all living organisms. January 30 to March 24, 2017 Synapse This exhibition featured works by Filipe Cortez, which serve as a mirror of the memories created in the places we inhabit, and as a reflection of who we are as human beings. November 30, 2016 to January 13, 2017 Dermatographia This exhibition featured works by artist Ariana Page Russell, whose art brings to light the beauty behind dermatographia, a skin condition she has that is characterized by red or pink welts that appear when the skin is scratched. October 10 to November 18, 2016 1138385_RR00100550 Ambulatory Care Nurse (37.5) – OBGYN/IVF *IVF experience highly preferred* Job ID: 1138385_RR00100550 Shift: M-F 9a-5p with 3 weekend days per month will require a rotation to 109 West 27th Street as need Department: Nursing, Ambulatory/Outpatient Obs/Gyn-IVF FGP (S440) is one of the nation’s top-ranked medical schools. For 175 years, NYU Grossman School of Medicine has trained thousands of physicians and scientists who have helped to shape the course of medical history and enrich the lives of countless people. An integral part of , the Grossman School of Medicine at its core is committed to improving the human condition through medical education, scientific research, and direct patient care. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. For more information, go to med.nyu.edu , and interact with us on Glassdoor Position Summary: We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Ambulatory Care Nurse (37.5) – OBGYN/IVF. The Ambulatory Care Nurse will support the coordination integration communication implementation and evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures In this role the Ambulatory Care Nurse will participate in site and organizational quality and performance improvement activities collect patient healthcare data systematically using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments and collaborate with licensed providers to develop patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes The Ambulatory Care Nurse provides comprehensive care in support of all patients manifested requirements through: administration of treatments and medication acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms disease prevention guidance rehabilitation care public health care and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling Specific activities include but are not limited to: • Performs physical examinations and diagnostic tests • Collects patient health history • Records information in electronic health record • Provides information counsel and education to patients and families regarding test results and treatment plans as directed • Administers medications including vaccination IV therapy oxygen administration provides comprehensive wound care and performs phone and in person patient triage for clinical concerns • Assesses and monitors patient responses to various treatments procedures and anesthesia • Assesses and interprets patient information making treatment decisions as appropriate • Consults with clinical supervisors and licensed providers to determine best treatment plans for patients • Directs supervises and delegates to licensed practical nurses medical assistants and technicians as needed to support patient flow and efficiency • Performs other duties as needed Clinical Responsibilities • Supports the coordination integration communication implementation and performance evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures • Ensures clinical compliance with Patient Safety initiatives and reporting • Supports key quality initiatives e g MIPS Care gap management to impact clinical outcome measures • Demonstrates knowledge of the NYULH Service Standards and incorporates into the performance of responsibilities • Participates in designated activities related to NYULH clinical standards and regulations of relevant outside agencies • Supports the missions philosophy standards goals and objectives of NYULH Departments of Nursing and FPG • Participates in coordination of on site activities to provide patient care in a healing humane and caring environment • Collaborates with members of the interdisciplinary team and promotes collegial relationships • Serves as a support and resource for nursing other clinical staff and providers • Participates in clinical inquiry and activities to foster evidence based practice • Embraces fundamental values and obligations beyond that of a private citizen including ethical obligations and a recognition of patients’ rights to confidentiality NYSED 2009 • Provides emergency care in accordance with organizational policy • Functions as a respectful member of the health care team • Delegates and oversees specific nursing interventions to implement patient care plans to members of the health care team as deemed appropriate by job description and license/certification Professional • Engages in self assessment and participates in activities to promote own professional growth and development • Seeks acquires and maintains current nursing knowledge and competence to fulfill responsibilities as FGP Ambulatory Nurse • Procures and applies new knowledge related to medical treatment and technology • Utilizes resources to meet individual learning needs and promote professional development in clinical practice • Maintains awareness of current patient centered evidence based practice and considers applicable research data to patient care delivery • Acts as a mentor to peers and colleagues • Fulfills obligation to identify and report professional misconduct appropriately Implementation / Provision of Care • Executes medical regimens as prescribed by licensed providers: physicians dentists nurse practitioners certified midwife physician assistants podiatrists • Assessment: Assess patients identify unmet patient needs and plan comprehensive care to meet those needs in relation to the patient’s illness condition or disability • Case finding: Identify unidentified co morbidities or emergent complications and report to the provider so that an intervention may be ordered • Co ordination: Integrate care with other health care providers such as respiratory therapists physical therapists social workers physicians nurse practitioners dieticians navigators and discharge planners • Provision of direct care services: Provides physical care in the entire patient’s manifested requirements including but not limited to administration of treatments and medication acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms disease prevention guidance rehabilitation care public health care and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling TASK/PROCEDURE • Collects and documents patient clinical historical and assessment data • Performs onsite testing e g : POC lab testing EKG specimen collection including phlebotomy auditory & visual test psychiatric & physical risk screening fetal monitoring ante partum and non stress test spirometry allergy skin testing bladder tb skin testing and result evaluation • Performs medical and nursing treatments in accordance with plan of care provider orders and NYSBON scope of practice • Perform procedures e g : hot & cold applications placement/ removal of orthopedic appliances casts splints suture and staple removal urinary bladder irrigation w/ and w/o chemotherapy insertion/removal/catheter care of urinary catheter ear irrigation • Applies and removes dressings and performs wound care • Assists with Minor and Major Procedures • Performs patient monitoring including pre intra post procedure testing medication administration medical/surgical treatment and/or sedation • Provides medication administration: IM PO SQ ID IV topical inhalation ocular vaginal rectal as per provider orders or protocols to patients in practice following nursing rights of medication administration and organizational policies This includes oxygen therapy • Facilitates medication refills by reviewing clinical information and preparing order for provider prospective authorization in EMR • Administers IV therapy: including blood blood products IV fluids chemotherapy with proper certification IV medications via peripheral or central venous devices • Starts and discontinues peripheral IV lines • Maintains peripheral and central IV lines and manages complications with appropriate certification Communication and Message Management • Ensures clinical in baskets are managed and encounters closed in a timely manner • Receives documents and reports critical lab values as indicated • Relays normal and abnormal clinical results follow up and explanation to patients as directed by provider • Performs preliminary review of results for prioritization of urgent findings then notifies provider for final verification • Performs in person and phone triage for patient clinical concerns with appropriate escalation; provides clinical advice as within RN scope and/or direction from provider • Performs Care/Case management of a defined population via multi disciplinary plan to coordinate/facilitate patient care as needed Health Promotion & Education • Identifies through case finding and critical analysis patient family and/or community deviations from health and wellbeing; advocates for initiates and/or recommends appropriate actions including the establishment of safe environments • Collects patient healthcare data systematically and continuously using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments • Analyzes assessment data to determine health status and nursing diagnoses • Reports deviations requiring medical diagnosis and/or treatment to provider • Escalates urgent/emergent deviations to medical provider and/or emergency care • Identifies expected outcomes and anticipates unexpected or adverse outcomes as individualized to the patient • Considers needs and behaviors of specific patient age and cultural groups in all patient care activities • Assesses patient’s ability to adapt to new situations and circumstances created by changes in health status and/or environment • Identifies barriers to optimal care e g physical cognitive language literacy socioeconomic cultural and or behavioral • Assesses & identifies learning needs; documents and updates accordingly • Develops patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes and partners with patients to set individualized goals • Educates patients and families to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns • Implements interventions identified in the plan of care • Evaluates patient progress toward attainment of expected outcomes Patient Experience Serves as NYU Langone Health Faculty Group Practice Brand Ambassador by upholding the NYULH Mission vision and values and promoting excellence in the patient experience during every encounter •   Drives consistency in every patient and colleague encounter by embodying the core principles of our FGP Service Strategy CARES Connect Align Respond Ensure and Sign Off •   Greets patients warmly and professionally stating name and role and clearly communicates each step of the care/interaction as appropriate •    Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person by phone or via electronic messaging •    Proactively anticipates patient needs and participates in service recovery by applying the LEARN model Listen Empathize Apologize Resolve Notify and escalates to leadership as appropriate •    Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity to improve patient experience and patient access with appropriate leadership i e ways to optimize provider schedules how to minimize delays increase employee engagement etc •    Partners with Patient Access Center and Central Billing Office team members to support collaboration and promote a positive patient experience •    Takes a proactive approach in ensuring that practice staff are fully versed in the Access Agreement gold standard principles Additional Position Specific Responsibilities: Fertility education of patients and partners To qualify you must have a A Baccalaureate degree in Nursing is highly preferred; a Diploma or Associates Degree in Nursing requires a minimum of one year experience in conjunction with plans to earn a baccalaureate degree required Current Registered Professional Nurse in New York Bachelor s degree in Nursing required Basic Life Support Certification through the American Heart Association Fluent written and spoken English language skills. Registered Nurse License-NYS, Basic Life Support Cert ACLS certification Membership in pertinent professional organizations NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $106,000.00 – $136,500.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138566_RR00101029 Senior Nursing Attendant – Inpatient Holdings, Full-time, Evenings Job ID: 1138566_RR00101029 Shift: 3:00 PM – 11:00 PM, rotating weekends and holidays Department: Nursing, NSG – Inpatient Holding Acute (W6818) NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island is a 591-bed university-affiliated medical center, which offers sophisticated diagnostic and therapeutic care in virtually every specialty and subspecialty of medicine and surgery. We are a major regional healthcare resource with a deep commitment to medical education and research, offering a full complement of inpatient and outpatient services. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. For more information, go to nyulangone.org We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Senior Nursing Attendant – Inpatient Holdings, Full-time, Evenings. In this role, the successful candidate assists in implementation of the nursing process by performing direct and indirect patient care to assigned patients under the supervision of the Registered Professional Nurse. Assists in maintaining an orderly and safe patient care environment and unit. Assists with Admission/Transfer/Discharge of patients: Orients patient to hospital environment. Provides patient with toileting supplies. Assists patient to remove clothes, complete property checklist  and safeguard personal property through Security. Assists in transfer of patients by gathering belongings, completion of clothing list and assisting in moving the patient. Prepares bedside unit to receive patients. Discharges: Assists patient to dress and pack personal belongings. Escorts patient as necessary and remains with the patient until he/she has left the building. Conducts patient rounds for toileting, positioning, comfort, safety and personal needs. Answers patient call lights and responds to patient needs promptly. Assemble O2 (e.g., nasal cannula) and suction set-ups. Provides basic hygiene to patients: bathing, AM/PM care, mouth care, denture care, hair care, nail and foot care, shaving, assists patients with bedpan, urinal and/or commode. Prepares patients for meals including: Clearing overbed tables and placing them within reach of the patient. Positioning patient correctly for eating/tube feedings. Assisting patients by preparing utensils and food items. Feeding patients. Performs and/or assist patient with simple treatments. Remove and reapply SCD wraps as directed by the RN. Assists RN in enema procedures. Collects specimens as directed by RN. Informs RN of any audible clinical alarms such as IV pumps, feeding pumps, ventilators, bedside monitors Assists with moving, lifting, positioning and transporting of patients. Assists with removal and security of patient personal items prior to procedures, as needed Changes linen in accordance with policy and as necessary. Takes and electronically records blood pressure, temperature, pulse, pulse oximetry, and respiration, per care level standard and as directed by the RN. Reports any abnormalities to RN. Weighs patients and electronically records on admission as ordered, and as directed by RN. Measures and records oral intake, urinary output, bowel elimination, gastric and other drainage onto I&O record (form or electronic). Calculates 8 hour totals. Empties drainage bags. Performs post mortem care. Performs safety observations for patients on continuous observation or in restraints, per policy and as directed. Reports any changes observed in the patient’s condition to the RN. Responds to and meets patient/family needs and customer concerns as soon as possible with compassion and understanding. Established effective, caring relationships with staff, patients, family and other members of the healthcare team Maintains competence through in-service and educational programs. Attends staff meetings and reviews/signs minutes of meetings not attended. Maintains a safe and uncluttered environment of care in patient rooms including removing excessive furniture, supplies and equipment. Assists with supply and equipment management of patient, procedure and supply rooms per department standards. Maintains cleanliness of utility rooms and pantries as assigned. Performs other duties such as errands, relieving other units, bringing stretchers and assisting other members of the health team, as directed. Discusses personal or unit-based educational goals/plans with the Nurse Manager and/or Nursing Professional Development Specialist, as appropriate. Demonstrates accountability for supplies, equipment, and environmental support. Assists in the collection of data for the units Quality and Performance Improvement Program that includes patient satisfaction and other measures. Provide instruction and demonstrate desired skills before NA¿s are expected to undertake new tasks within their scope. Share feedback to both new and current NA¿s as it relates to areas where there are opportunities for development. Performs other duties as aligned with the mission and values of the organization Minimum Qualifications: To qualify you must be a High School Diploma or equivalent required. Graduate of Certified Nursing Attendant Program, certified as a CNA and at least 6 months relevant experience. BLS or Heartsaver CPR/AED certification (Issued by the American Heart Association-AHA) is required upon entry to the position. Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal, reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; Strong customer service and communication skills. NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $49,721.28 – $51,863.68 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. , also known as the Perelman Emergency Center, opened in April 2014. Located at 570 First Avenue at 33rd Street, the 22,000-square-foot facility more than triples the size of the former emergency department. It is equipped with 40 treatment spaces, including 3 triage rooms, 3 resuscitation rooms, and 3 negative-pressure isolation rooms. An on-site pharmacist is on duty 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and there are separate entrances for ambulance and walk-in patients. In December 2013, NYU Langone’s longtime trustee Ronald O. Perelman, chairman and chief executive officer of MacAndrews and Forbes Holdings Inc., announced a $50-million gift to create the Perelman Emergency Center . NYU Langone built the facility with flood mitigation measures that will help protect the facility against severe storms. Plans for a new, larger, and more modern emergency room began years before the impact of Superstorm Sandy forced the existing emergency room to close, but the closing afforded us the opportunity to accelerate construction of the new facility, and the Perelman Emergency Center opened 18 months after Superstorm Sandy hit. The Perelman Emergency Center maximizes clinical efficiencies and new technologies in emergency medicine. Its main features include: spacious treatment rooms and bedside registration state-of-the-art imaging facilities for quick testing and diagnosis efficient intake and discharge processes to make treatment areas available sooner for incoming patients new KiDS Emergency Department , which provides a child-focused and family-centered environment expedited service for less urgent, non-acute patients direct access to NYU Langone’s , a nationally recognized program The Perelman Emergency Center was designed to be flexible and scalable so that its space can be adapted to fluctuations in patient volume. Since opening, it has already been enhanced with the addition of five patient treatment bays in December 2017, and another two treatment bays in June 2018. 1138316_RR00100700 Physician Assistant or Acute Care Nurse Practitioner – Medical ICU Job ID: 1138316_RR00100700 Facility: NYU Langone Hospitals Shift: day/night rotation, 11.5-hour shifts Department: Physician Assistants, MICU-APP (H1814) NYU Langone Hospitals is a world-class, patient-centered, integrated academic medical center, known for its excellence in clinical care, research, and education. It comprises more than 200 locations throughout the New York area, including five inpatient locations a children’s hospital three emergency rooms and a level 1 trauma center. Also part of NYU Langone Health is the , a National Cancer Institute designated comprehensive cancer center, and , which since 1841 has trained thousands of physicians and scientists who have helped to shape the course of medical history. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. nd interact with us on We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant or Acute Care Nurse Practitioner – Medical ICU. In this role, the successful candidate Responsible for provision coordination and assurance of comprehensive medical care using sound medical knowledge and pertinent standards of care performance of therapeutic corrective and prescriptive measures on the designated inpatient or outpatient population assume delegatory responsibilities assigned by supervising physician privileged as Medical Staff of NYU Langone Health Supports the mission philosophy standards goals and objectives of the institution department and clinical service Educates patient and family to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns Evaluates treatment and health care plans for effectiveness and modifies per clinical standards and practice protocols Performs delegated clinical duties effectively and efficiently Practices as a member of the allied health staff according to the rules and regulations of the Medical Staff and bylaws as outlined in the delineation of privileges Prescribes medical equipment devices physical and occupational therapy and home health services per practice protocol Prescribes in patient and discharge medications according to New York State law including controlled substances with DEA authorization Physical stamina manual dexterity visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities Membership in professional specialty organizations desirable Previously demonstrated ability to facilitate group processes and work cohesively andcollaboratively as member of the interdisciplinary team Evidence of excellent interpersonal skills effective communication skills creative problem solvingand excellent critical thinking skills Previous experience as a physician assistant or physician assistant fellowship experience ispreferred At least 2 years of clinical rotation in various medical surgical and other specialty areas Coordinates implementation of clinical research studies or clinical trials including patient screening enrollment and data collection Monitors and trends the cost effectiveness of the position particularly as it relates to the efficiency and performance indicators established for the service Assists in the preparation implementation and evaluation of research protocols when applicable Works collaboratively with nursing and other disciplines in the development and implementation of clinical studies within the area of expertise Uses evidence based health care literature to advise and support appropriate practice changes within the designated service Participates in the development and monitoring of patient outcomes per established practice protocols for purposes of quality and performance improvement Serves as a clinical expert and resource for the education of peers and other health professionals Maintains PA board certification Maintains annual CME requirement for re appointment and privileging Maintains current expertise in area of practice Promotes own professional growth and development in clinical role Functions as a respectful member of the health care team Participates in designated activities related to professional physician assistant practice standards Demonstrates knowledge of the organizations Core Values and incorporates them into the performance of responsibilities Facilitates patients throughput and efficient process during patients admission and discharge Facilitates the continuity of care across the continuum of services e g home care other facilities appointments with MDs etc Provides consultation about the therapeutic regimen to the nursing staff responsible for the patients care in the hospital setting Works collaboratively with the attending physician to maintain timely and appropriate communication with family members house staff other disciplines and ancillary services Participates in the development and revision of interdisciplinary and hospital standards patient and family education materials as relevant to area of practice and expertise Works collaboratively with the interdisciplinary team including the attending physician to develop and implement the therapeutic plan of care for a group of patients and ensure communication with family members Plans and organizes care to meet individual patient needs and to ensure appropriate clinical resource utilization per protocols pathways and other means “Physician Assistants working at the Helen L & Martin S Kimmel Hyperbaric and Advanced Wound Healing Center “Hyperbaric Center” will have additional duties assigned to them as outlined in the “Role of the Physician Assistant” policy for the Hyperbaric Center ” To qualify you must have a Physician Assistant Bachelor s Degree BA PA Current New York State Physician Assistant License NCCPA Board Certification BLs or ACLS PALS NRP Provider Neonatal Resuscitation Program NALS per delineation of privileges. Physician Assistant Lic-NYS, Ntl Com Cert Physician Asst Membership in pertinent professional organizations preferred NYU Langone Health provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Langone Health is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Langone Health’s EEO policies, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $141,393.82 – $204,223.82 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. | December 20, 2013 NYU Langone Medical Center Announces $50 Million Gift to Create the New Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services YU Langone Medical Center and its longtime trustee Ronald O. Perelman, chairman and chief executive officer of MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc., announced a $50 million gift to create the Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services (Perelman Emergency Center). The Perelman Emergency Center, expected to be completed in April 2014, will be a 22,000 square-foot state-of-the-art emergency care center located in Tisch Hospital on the Medical Center’s main campus on Manhattan’s east side. The Perelman Emergency Center more than triples the size of the former Emergency Department (ED). “We are delighted that The Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services will soon transform the way emergency care is delivered in the community, hard-hit after Superstorm Sandy caused our emergency department to close," said , dean and CEO of NYU Langone Medical Center. “Mr. Perelman’s generous gift will allow us to provide the community with access to advanced adult and pediatric emergency services, and is central to our ability to run a 21 st century academic medical center.” The new Perelman Emergency Center is part of NYU Langone’s sweeping campus transformation designed to modernize its infrastructure in order to more efficiently and effectively meet the health care demands of today’s complex health care delivery system. Located at 570 First Avenue, it will include: A separate, dedicated entrance on 33rd Street and 1st Avenue for adult walk-in and ambulance patients; For the first time there will be an area solely dedicated to pediatric emergency services; Spacious waiting rooms and improved wayfinding to increase patient flow and enable patients and families to be more comfortable; Increase in treatment rooms designed to allow flexibility of use and to meet patients’ needs, improved patient privacy and infection control and enhanced visibility and contact between caregivers and patients; Expanded state-of-the-art imaging facilities that are fully integrated into emergency care procedures to enable faster diagnosis, including two new X-ray units and a dedicated ED ultrasound unit; and A new disposition lounge will accommodate patients as they prepare for discharge, which makes treatment areas available for new patients quicker. In addition to being an accomplished businessman, Mr. Perelman is a generous philanthropist, contributing to the arts, education, research, and Jewish causes among other areas of interest. In fact, in 2012 he was ranked #27 in the Chronicle of Philanthropy’s ranking of America’s top donors. For Mr. Perelman, the impetus behind his financial contributions is about creating a long-lasting, extraordinary impact. Mr. Perelman’s holding company, MacAndrews & Forbes, which includes Revlon, is one of the country’s largest privately-held businesses. Mr. Perelman has been deeply involved with NYU Langone for three decades. He previously provided the Ronald O. Perelman Fund to support bio-molecular medicine at NYU School of Medicine and continues to support the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology at NYU Langone. “I am very proud of my long association with NYU Langone Medical Center,” said Ronald O. Perelman. “The need for a state-of-the-art emergency center is of paramount importance to the people of the City of New York and I look forward to this facility playing a crucial role in emergency patient care.” Though the original ED remains closed at this time, in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy NYU Langone immediately established an Urgent Care Center to help address the community’s need for emergency services. Though New York City Fire Department (FDNY) 9-1-1 ambulance service has not yet returned, the Urgent Care Center’s patient volumes currently equal or exceed the ED’s previous daily patient visits, signaling that the expanded and renovated space will be critical additions. In this article Need help finding a doctor? Search all doctors or call 844-698-7243. Related Articles Man Survives Widow-Maker Heart Attack Thanks to Quick Action from NYU Langone Heart Experts With any type of heart attack, but especially a widow-maker, “time is heart muscle.” February 14, 2024 New Mom Receives Lifesaving Surgery to Remove Blood Clots in Her Lungs Lung surgery and life support were both key to saving a new mother’s life. December 20, 2023 The information entered on this page will not be used to send unsolicited email, and will not be sold to a third party. 1138442_RR00100804 Physician Assistant or Nurse Practitioner – Non-invasive Cardiology – Manhattan – 10hr Days Job ID: 1138442_RR00100804 Shift: 8a-6p, 4 days/week, Monday-Friday Department: Physician Assistants, Non Invasive Cardiology (H202) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant – Non-invasive Cardiology. 1138318_RR00100542 Physician Assistant – Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Job ID: 1138318_RR00100542 Shift: Department: Physician Assistants, NYU Grossman School of Medicine Surgery-Hepatobiliary Division (S2044) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant – Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery. Dr. Shapiro specializes in managing melanoma, a type of cancer that not long ago came with a grim prognosis. But with recent treatment advances, the outlook for people with melanoma is now drastically improved. Dr. Shapiro is confident that this leap forward in melanoma care is a pattern that will soon be seen in other forms of cancer. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. View Dr. Shapiro’s Profile About Perlmutter Cancer Center Our Approach to Melanoma Our Approach to Breast Cancer Our Cancer Screening Programs Search Our Clinical Trials Phil and Paul Malenczak have a lot in common, and when they were both diagnosed with prostate cancer, they sought a center with a full range of advanced treatment options. Now they have one more thing in common: they’re both cancer survivors. Our Approach to Prostate Cancer Search Clinical Trials Dr. Ahn’s approach is to attack cancer before it presents itself. Diet, genetics, and the environment: These all have a role in causing cancer. She’s looking into specific bacteria in the microbiome related to the subsequent development of cancer. Dr. Ahn is discovering how we can provide tailored nutritional guidelines based on a person’s genetic, hormonal, or biological makeup. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. View Dr. Ahn’s Profile Research at Perlmutter Cancer Center Attend a Free Health Lecture Dr. Bar-Sagi is more enthusiastic than ever that current scientific research will lead to a cure for cancer. Early in her career, the scientific community didn’t even know that genes were involved in causing cancer. Now, thousands of genes have been identified, and patients are seeing more treatment success than ever before. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. Our Research Partnership with Technion Institute , is renowned for his skills in pediatric neurosurgery, which is not surprising, given his childhood fascination with the brain. Today, he is not only called on to perform the most complex pediatric brain procedures, but he connects with patients and families in what is often a lifetime connection. Dr. Jeffrey Wisoff Dr. Arena doesn’t want to know if we can make cancer go away. His question is, “how soon?” He envisions a time when treatment will not focus on surgery or chemotherapy but on therapies that unleash the body’s immune system to do the work—therapies that are just gaining traction today. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. View Dr. Arena’s Profile About Arena Oncology on Long Island Inspired by his father’s work ethic and aspiration of becoming a physician himself, is chair of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery at NYU Langone and the co-director of the at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. A renowned heart surgeon, he performs complex surgeries on hearts as small as a walnut. Dr. Ralph S. Mosca A self-proclaimed “math geek” growing up, , was drawn to medicine to apply his talents to help people. Today, as an ear, nose, and throat surgeon, he’s adept at identifying the different needs of families, which has helped him provide thoughtful care for the children he treats. Dr. Scott Rickert , had a passion for taking things apart and reassembling them. Now as a surgeon, he uses his ability to fix things in a more meaningful way by performing challenging surgical procedures. Dr. Jason Fisher After losing both of her grandparents to cancer, Elizabeth A. Raetz, MD , pursued a career in medicine to help make a difference. Following her passion for childhood leukemia, she now leads the Division of Pediatric Hematology–Oncology at the Dr. Elizabeth Raetz Growing up, Mary Pat Gallagher, MD , developed a love of science, which ultimately led her to a medical career as the director of NYU Langone’s . Dr. Gallagher knows that diabetes treatment can be disruptive for children and is passionate about educating not just families, but everyone who is part of a child’s life. Playing on a basketball team as a child gave Mikhail Kazachkov, MD , an understanding of teamwork. Now a renowned pediatric pulmonologist, he reinforces the value of collaboration with his multidisciplinary team, which treats conditions ranging from the most complex, chronic conditions to more common breathing issues. Dr. Mikhail Kazachkov February 18, 2015 NYU Langone and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology to Forge Groundbreaking Partnership in Cancer Research Cancer Research Funded by Major Gift from Philanthropists Laura and Isaac Perlmutter I n a groundbreaking step forward to advance global collaboration in the fight against cancer, two of the world’s preeminent academic and research institutions NYU Langone Medical Center and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology formally announced a $9 million gift from philanthropists Laura and Isaac Perlmutter that will fund two major, joint research endeavors with potentially far-reaching impact in advancing cancer research. The joint program is positioned to attract additional, world-class support from institutions and individuals who are dedicated to eradicating cancer through focused and efficient research. The first $3 million of the grant will finance six cancer-focused research projects that will be conducted by teams spearheaded by co-investigators from both NYU Langone and the Technion. The remaining $6 million will be used to establish a state-of-the-art research facility on Technion’s campus in Israel that will support these and other research projects and which will have a principal focus on the emerging field of cancer metabolomics. NYU Langone is a world-renowned leader in the investigation and treatment of cancer. The Technion is one of Israel’s leading academic and research centers and a top-ranked science and technology global research university. “NYU Langone and the Technion have a shared, longstanding commitment to advancing cancer research,” said , senior vice president and vice dean for science at NYU Langone, chief science officer at NYU School of Medicine, and a principal architect of the NYU Langone-Technion partnership. “We are now at a great moment in our institutions’ illustrious histories, a point from which we can jointly leverage the talent and creativity of our researchers toward accelerating breakthroughs. The foresight and the generosity of the Perlmutters, particularly at this time of financial challenge in funding for basic research, will have tremendous impact.” “Bringing together the unique expertise of researchers from both NYU and the Technion will hopefully enable us to overcome some of the most difficult challenges in treating cancer patients,” said Technion Distinguished Professor Aaron Ciechanover, MD, D.Sc., the 2004 Nobel Prize Laureate in Chemistry, and Distinguished Research Professor and head of the David and Janet Polak Cancer and Vascular Biology Research Center at the Technion Faculty of Medicine. Internationally Renowned Researchers to Lead the Charge The latest gift from the Perlmutters coincides with two new appointments at NYU Langone and the Technion that will be integral to the partnership. Renowned cancer biologist Benjamin G. Neel, MD, PhD , an expert in the field of cell signal transduction, recently joined the NYU Langone faculty as director of the , and Eyal Gottlieb, PhD, a world leader in cancer metabolism, has been recruited to lead the new research facility at the Technion funded by the Perlmutter gift and spearhead joint efforts in cancer metabolomics. Dr. Neel will work closely with Dr. Ciechanover to lead the collaborative cancer research effort between the two institutions. In addition, Dr. Neel will oversee at NYU Langone the building of world-class translational programs in immunotherapy, cancer genetics/targeted therapies and epigenetics, imaging, as well as expanded programs in clinical care, community outreach, and supportive oncology. Prior to joining NYU Langone, Dr. Neel served as Director of the Ontario Cancer Institute at Princess Margaret Cancer Center, a position he held since 2007. Dr. Gottlieb currently serves as director of the Cancer Metabolism Research Unit at the Cancer Research UK, Beatson Institute in Glasgow, Scotland. His work principally focuses on cancer metabolism and metabolomics, combining analytical chemistry with basic cancer research to explore metabolic adaptations and vulnerabilities of cancer and with it, new potential clinical approaches for cancer treatment. Champions in the Fight Against Cancer The gift to foster the NYU Langone-Technion partnership continues the efforts of the Perlmutters to champion projects in the fight against cancer. In January 2014, they made an extraordinary gift in excess of $50 million to advance cancer research and treatment at NYU Langone. As part of that gift, NYU Langone renamed the NYU Cancer Institute a National Cancer Institute-designated cancer center the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone. The Perlmutters both serve as members of the Board of Trustees at NYU Langone. The latest gift also recognizes the Perlmutters’ commitment to wed Israel’s strengths as a global leader in research and technological innovation with other institutions and endeavors. They note that Israeli institutions like the Technion spearhead many of the world’s top advances in medicine, science, and technology with a proven record in the development of effective cancer treatments, and that it was important to them to further these efforts through partnerships like the newly established one with NYU Langone. “Ike and I have long sought for ways to link the state of the art scientific and research advances being made in Israel with our deep commitment to NYU Langone Medical Center,” said Ms. Perlmutter in announcing the new gift. “The partnership between the Technion and NYU Langone allows us to launch a focused cancer research and treatment approach. We are confident that this collaborative effort, which avoids duplication of research initiatives and creates efficiencies among marquee donors and researchers, will lead to dramatic results in the fight against this terrible disease.” Cancer Metabolomics—A Roadmap to Breakthroughs in Diagnosis and Treatment Cancer metabolomics will be the principal focus of the research lab that will be established at the Technion with the Perlmutter gift. Metabolomics is the comprehensive study of chemical processes in cells such as the breaking down of sugars and fats. These processes are both affected by, and can influence, a variety of human diseases including cancer. Because of the significant differences in the chemical processes that occur in cancer cells in comparison to normal healthy cells, metabolomics is becoming ever more important in cancer research. Developing a comprehensive understanding of these chemical processes through metabolomics is critical both for the early detection and diagnosis of cancer as well as for developing innovative treatments. Novel imaging approaches, early detection blood tests, and new targeted drugs to fight cancer would all be facilitated with a deep and comprehensive understanding of cancer metabolomics. These types of studies integrate biology, chemistry, mathematics, and computer science, making it an ideal focal point for collaboration between a science and medical institution like NYU Langone and a technological and academic powerhouse like the Technion. First Phase of Project Launched Collaborative efforts between NYU Langone and the Technion are already underway. Under the auspices of the initial $3 million grant, a request for proposals (RFP) for cancer-focused projects was recently disseminated among key researchers at both NYU Langone and Technion. A major stipulation in the RFP is that all submitted projects have co-principal investigators representing both institutions. The RFP request follows a highly successful two-day joint workshop, held in New York City in fall 2014, at which many researchers from both NYU Langone and Technion presented updates on their work and learned of ways in which they could collaborate. Approximately six research projects will be selected with each receiving a two-year, $500,000 grant $250,000 to fund research at each site. Funding for selected projects will commence in late spring 2015. About The Technion-Israel Institute for Technology The Technion-Israel Institute of Technology is a major source of the innovation and brainpower that drives the Israeli economy, and a key to Israel’s renowned as the world’s “Start-Up Nation.” Its three Nobel Prize winners exemplify academic excellence. Technion people, ideas, and inventions make immeasurable contributions to the world including life-saving medicine, sustainable energy, computer science, water conservation, and nanotechnology. The Joan and Irwin Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a vital component of Cornell Tech, and a model for graduate applied science education that is expected to transform New York City’s economy. American Technion Society (ATS) donors provide critical support for the Technion—more than $2 billion since its inception in 1940. Based in New York City, the ATS and its network of chapters across the U.S. provide funds for scholarships, fellowships, faculty recruitment and chairs, research, buildings, laboratories, classrooms and dormitories, and more. Jim Mandler Phone: 212-404-3525 jim.mandler@nyumc.org Lisa Greiner Phone: 212-404-3532 lisa.greiner@nyumc.org Perlmutter Cancer Center Appoints Renowned Clinician–Scientist to Lead Its Transplantation & Cellular Therapy Center on Long Island Dr. Anne S. Renteria will work to build out its blood cancer programs. December 20, 2024 NYU Langone Thoracic Surgeons Using Minimally Invasive Robotic Surgery to Shorten Hospital Stays & Improve Patient Outcomes for Lung Cancer Such methods allow patients to go home 24 hours after their procedure. December 18, 2024 A rare genetic condition brought Chanelle A. Coble-Sadaphal, MD , and her twin sister to the hospital as children, but today she draws on the experience as she treats adolescents facing a host of complex problems. Dr. Coble-Sadaphal lends her expertise to her patients in their communities and their schools—always in the place they feel most comfortable. Dr. Chanelle Coble-Sadaphal sagar 2024-12-16T14:34:45+00:00 Appointment as a faculty member at NYU Langone Health is a mark of distinction awarded to those with the unique qualifications to join our community of scholars and contribute to our academic mission. Department About This author has not yet filled in any details. So far gayathri has created 0 blog entries. Joseph J. Greco, MD Joseph J. Greco, MD, is executive vice president and chief of hospital operations at , where he oversees the strategic direction and daily operations of the hospital and , as well as directing the delivery of excellence in clinical care and patient safety. Dr. Greco assumed the hospital’s leadership in 2019 and skillfully guided it through the COVID-19 pandemic, one of the most challenging periods in the hospital’s 125-year history. He has over 30 years of clinical experience and previously served as the hospital’s chief medical officer. Under Dr. Greco’s stewardship, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island introduced an advanced heart failure program, offering patients the latest clinical advances, including heart-assist devices and access to a transplant program with the fastest transplant rates in the state. The hospital is also recognized by The Joint Commission and the New York State Department of Health as a Comprehensive Stroke Center, among other noteworthy achievements. Dr. Greco serves as the chair of the NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Department of Anesthesiology, and he is board-certified by the American Board of Anesthesiology. His experience also includes serving as the hospital’s chief patient safety officer, driving the introduction of quality and patient safety initiatives to the hospital long before they became standards in the medical community. In addition, he chaired key hospital committees, including the Quality Improvement and Advisory Committee and the Operating Room Committee. A resident of Garden City, New York, Dr. Greco earned his medical degree at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City. His postgraduate training included an internship in internal medicine and a residency in anesthesiology at Mount Sinai, where he served as chief resident for anesthesiology. He is a member of the American Society of Anesthesia, the New York Society of Anesthesiologists, and the American Society of Professionals in Patient Safety. Annette Johnson, executive vice president and vice dean, general counsel, has served as general counsel of NYU Langone Health and its entities since 2001, when she founded the Office of General Counsel for NYU Langone Hospitals and NYU School of Medicine, after having served in the NYU Office of General Counsel from 1981. She was appointed senior vice president and general counsel for NYU Langone Health in 2007. Having grown the Office of General Counsel to its current staff of 20 in-house attorneys—each with deep expertise in their fields of practice—plus support staff in Manhattan and on Long Island, Ms. Johnson oversees all legal matters concerning NYU Langone Health, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, and all subsidiary entities of these corporations, including the off-shore insurance captive corporations. Under her direction, the Office of General Counsel provides legal leadership and services in corporate governance, corporate finance and bond issuance, mergers—including recent mergers with NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island; affiliation with Long Island Community Hospital; acquisitions and joint ventures; hospital regulatory, medical staff, and patient matters; all faculty and physician employment contracts; counsel and litigation management for employment and labor matters; research conduct and federal contracting and response to investigations, technology transfer licensing, and management; and management and direction of all malpractice claims and lawsuits brought against the hospital system and insured physicians. Ms. Johnson directs and oversees over 40 outside law firms that provide legal services to NYU Langone Health, including active management of high-value affirmative litigations. Under Ms. Johnson’s direction, the Office of General Counsel is highly efficient and continues to deliver excellent legal services with outside counsel expense below national benchmark for comparable corporations. In addition to her responsibilities in legal matters, Ms. Johnson has responsibility for NYU Langone’s Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (IACERM), which she founded and has led since 1998. With a staff of 33 audit and compliance professionals, under the direction of the vice president for IACERM reporting to her, Ms. Johnson oversees administration of NYU Langone’s conflicts of interest management, research integrity and research misconduct matters, HIPAA and privacy compliance, professional and hospital billing compliance, and internal audit functions and reporting. Prior to attending law school, Ms. Johnson earned a PhD in English at the University of Massachusetts. She received her JD summa cum laude from the University of Toledo, where she was valedictorian. After graduating from law school, she held a faculty and administrative appointment at the University of Toledo College of Law and served in the New York State Office of the Attorney General prior to joining NYU. She has published articles in the area of faculty tenure and school financing reform. Fritz François, MD, executive vice president and vice dean, chief of hospital operations, oversees all patient care activity on the Manhattan campus, ensuring the highest levels of quality and safety. Dr. François previously served as chief medical officer and professor in the Division of Gastroenterology in the Department of Medicine at NYU Langone Health. In this role, he led transformative efforts around value-based management and guided the 2018 opening of . Dr. François also served as a frontline architect of key operational initiatives to standardize quality patient care, proactively develop patient safety risk reduction strategies, and improve patient satisfaction. Throughout his career, Dr. François has been recognized for his research and efforts to foster diversity and reduce health disparities. His work has been funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, and the American College of Gastroenterology, among others. His many honors include five American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Diversity Minority Research awards; the Academic Champion of Health Award from the National Medical Fellowships for his work with underserved minority students; the NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Frauenthal Award for service to human health following earthquake relief efforts he led in Haiti; and the 2011 NYU Martin Luther King Jr. Humanitarian Award for embodying and exemplifying the characteristics promoted by Dr. King. Dr. François currently serves as a collaborator and advisor for the NYU Langone Institute of Excellence in Health Equity and remains committed to mentoring individuals across the professional landscape. Dr. François completed his medical degree at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, where he stayed for internship, residency, chief residency, and gastroenterology fellowship. He has over 70 peer-reviewed publications, book chapters, and presentations in his research areas of interest, which include esophageal disease, H. pylori , hepatitis C, and colorectal cancer screening in minority populations. Dafna Bar-Sagi, PhD, was named senior vice president and vice dean for science, chief scientific officer of NYU Langone Health in summer 2011, and executive vice president in 2019. In these roles, she serves as the principal strategist to advance the NYU Langone’s research enterprise. Additionally, Dr. Bar-Sagi oversees all clinical, translational, and basic science operations, graduate education, and administration for the research enterprise through the Office of Science and Research. She also manages research IT, space allocation, finance, and research compliance. Dr. Bar-Sagi is a world renowned cancer biologist whose research has had a major impact on the understanding of mechanisms that control tumor initiation and progression. The focus of her work is the Ras oncogene and its role in the regulation of cell proliferation and survival, tumor immunity, cellular metabolism, and cell-to-cell signaling. Dr. Bar-Sagi is the Saul J. Farber Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology in the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology and a professor in the Department of Medicine at NYU Langone. She is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in recognition of her continued excellence in scientific research. Prior to joining NYU Langone in 2006 as chair of the Department of Biochemistry, she headed the Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology at the State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook. Dr. Bar-Sagi earned her undergraduate and master’s degrees from Bar-Ilan University, Israel, and her PhD from SUNY at Stony Brook. Arun Chopra, MD , had a fairly easy time in school as a child, but after he became a doctor, he realized the importance of going beyond the status quo. As director of pediatric critical care, he treats critically ill children who have complex conditions with a sense of calm to help families through a challenging time. Dr. Arun Chopra The Energy Building is the centerpiece of NYU Langone’s plan to become a resilient and reliable medical center and a leader in by reducing our contribution to global warming as a result of clean and efficient energy use. With a new combined heat and power (CHP) plant, emergency generators, and boilers in the building, the Energy Building affords NYU Langone the capacity to be completely self-sufficient in the event of a utility power interruption, with two different sources of backup power for our critical areas. The CHP plant is also environmentally friendly. Since kicking off our current energy conservation program in 2007, we have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 22 percent across all of our owned properties. This new plant is bolstering our efforts, enabling us to achieve our goal of reducing emissions by 50 percent. Operating the CHP plant alone will have the same environmental impact as taking more than 4,600 cars off the road. Our Primary Electric Service The 71,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art energy facility provides the primary electric service to the campus, accommodates the anticipated growth in energy consumption, and employs CHP generation technology to produce energy that is cleaner and more economical. At its heart is an 11-megawatt cogeneration, combined cycle plant. It includes a dual-fuel fired turbine (using natural gas normally, and diesel oil as a backup) that produces 8 megawatts of power. The waste heat from the gas turbine then enters a heat recovery steam generator (HRSG), which produces about 130,000 pounds of steam per hour. This steam powers a steam turbine generator, creating an additional 3 megawatts of power. Next, the steam is distributed throughout the main campus to provide heat, hot water, sterilization, and humidification. Finally, the steam is condensed back into water and pumped into the HRSG to help create more steam. This cycle substantially reduces the need to purchase electrical power from outside sources. In addition, two back-up boilers supply steam to the campus when the gas turbine/HRSG/steam turbine system is shut down for maintenance, thus ensuring the main campus always has steam. The Energy Building also houses a 7.5-megawatt diesel-fired emergency power plant if the main system fails for any reason. The Energy Building is strategically positioned just south of the and adjacent to , hugging the FDR Service Road at the eastern boundary of the main campus. The building also houses the campus’ Department of Radiation Oncology , in a configuration that enables seamless connections between Tisch Hospital and the Kimmel Pavilion, both of which use the new radiation oncology facility. Elizabeth Golden, executive vice president for communications, marketing, government and community affairs, is responsible for advancing NYU Langone Health’s reputation and unique brand identity as one of the nation’s premier centers for excellence in clinical care, biomedical research, and medical education. As leader of the Office of Government and Community Affairs, Ms. Golden oversees engagement with city, state, and federal officials, community boards, and community-based organizations to create partnerships and synergies that enhance the vibrancy of the communities in which NYU Langone’s patients reside. In this role, she leads the institution’s engagement with its diverse audiences of patients, staff, and key stakeholders. This includes development and implementation of NYU Langone’s public affairs, digital engagement, internal communications, government and community affairs, and traditional and digital marketing and advertising strategies. Throughout her career, executives and senior leaders have relied on Ms. Golden’s counsel on critical communications and public affairs issues. She specializes in embedding storytelling to boost organizational thought leadership, employee engagement, and cultural transformation. A member of Fast Company’s Impact Council and named by Reuters as one of 20 Trailblazing Women in Healthcare in 2024, Ms. Golden brings decades of experience in developing holistic corporate affairs strategies in highly regulated environments, including pharmaceuticals, finance, and government. Prior to joining NYU Langone, she spent 17 years at Pfizer Inc., where she led several transformative corporate affairs initiatives involving corporate reputation, external and internal communications, and public affairs. Most recently, Ms. Golden was the vice president and chief of staff for Pfizer’s chief commercial officer and president of the global biopharmaceuticals business, where she served as a member of the leadership team. Before joining Pfizer, she worked in communications and external affairs at Columbia University, in marketing and communications at Citigroup, and as press secretary to Senator John Breaux. Ms. Golden holds a bachelor’s degree in law and society, with a minor in communications, from American University. She also holds a master’s degree in public administration specializing in financial management from NYU’s Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service. Dr. Andrew W. Brotman, executive vice president and vice dean for clinical affairs and strategy, chief clinical officer, is responsible for physician/hospital programmatic initiatives and ambulatory care. In these roles, he also leads the Faculty Group Practice, manages our partnerships with affiliate hospitals, including those in the NYC Health + Hospitals, and manages our faculty office complex. He is the executive sponsor of the oncology service line, and played a significant role in the opening and ongoing operation of the Clinical Cancer Center at 34th Street, now part of the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center. He also leads the cardiac and vascular service lines and other strategic clinical areas. Dr. Brotman is also a professor of psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. He has been at NYU Langone Health since 1999 and was instrumental in leading the development of an infrastructure to manage the clinical enterprise over a period of significant growth. Prior to NYU Langone, Dr. Brotman was senior vice president and chief operating officer for physician practice management and network development for CareGroup in Boston. In that position, he was responsible for the operations of employed physician practices, and was one of the founders of the managed care organization known as the Physicians Services Network. Dr. Brotman was also the chief of psychiatry at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and prior to that was chief of psychiatry at the Deaconess Hospital, where he also served as president of the medical staff and later as medical director of Pathway Health, a four-hospital network. He served as interim president of Mt. Auburn Hospital in 1998. Dr. Brotman completed his psychiatry residency at Massachusetts General Hospital beginning in 1981 and had increasing levels of responsibility at that institution until 1991, when he went to Deaconess. He spent much of his time at Massachusetts General in a public-private partnership with the state, serving as director of public psychiatry for Massachusetts General and later as clinical director of the Eric Lindemann Mental Health Center. He is on the editorial boards of several journals and has more than 80 publications to his credit. Dr. Steven B. Abramson, executive vice president and vice dean for education, faculty, and academic affairs, chief academic officer, is the chair of the Department of Medicine and a professor of medicine and pathology. As vice dean, Dr. Abramson oversees faculty affairs, including appointments, promotions, and tenure issues. Additionally, his office oversees undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate education, continuing medical education, precollege programs, the admissions process, and NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s accreditation. Dr. Abramson previously served in the Dean’s Office as associate dean for curriculum, vice dean for medical education, and associate dean for clinical research. As vice dean, he led the Task Force on Curriculum Reform, which resulted in the implementation of Curriculum for the 21st Century (C21) at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. A summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Dartmouth College, Dr. Abramson earned his MD from Harvard Medical School, and was elected to the Alpha Omega Alpha honor society. He arrived at NYU Langone and NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue for his internship in 1974 and later served as chief resident in medicine. With training in rheumatology, Dr. Abramson joined the NYU Langone faculty in 1979 and rose to the rank of professor in 1996. In addition to his role in medical education, Dr. Abramson has experience in both basic science and clinical research in the field of inflammation and arthritis, and has published more than 200 papers on these and related topics. He is a co-editor of the journal Arthritis & Rheumatism , a former member of the Rheumatology Board of the American Board of Internal Medicine, past president of the Osteoarthritis Research Society International, and former chairman of the Arthritis Advisory Committee of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Dr. Abramson was named by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) board of directors as the first chair of the ACR–FDA Drug Safety Committee. He is also a current member of the Skeletal Biology Structure and Regeneration Study Section of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Michael M. Ambrosino, MD Associate Dean for Graduate Medical Education Joan F. Cangiarella, MD Senior Associate Dean for Education, Faculty, and Academic Affairs Victoria C. Dinsell, MD Associate Dean for Student Affairs Brian D. Elbel, MPH, PhD Associate Dean for Research Mission Anthony J. Grieco, MD Associate Dean for Alumni Relations and Academic Events Adriana Heguy, PhD Associate Dean for Division of Advanced Research Technologies Judith S. Hochman, MD Senior Associate Dean for Clinical Sciences Crystal Mainiero, MPA Associate Dean for Academic Planning and Innovation Georgeann McGuinness, MD Associate Dean for Mentoring and Professional Development Keith J. Micoli, PhD Associate Dean for Postdoctoral Affairs Iman Osman, MD Associate Dean for Clinical Research Strategy Jeremy I. Paul, PhD Associate Dean for Basic Science Research Operations and Regulatory Affairs Michael Poles, MD, PhD Associate Dean for Curriculum Joseph E. Ravenell, MD Associate Dean for Diversity Affairs and Inclusion Rafael Rivera, MD, MBA Associate Dean for Admissions and Financial Aid Melvin G. Rosenfeld, PhD Senior Associate Dean for Medical Education Barry P. Rosenzweig, MD Assistant Dean for Graduate Medical Education Verity E. Schaye, MD Assistant Dean for Education in the Clinical Sciences Michael Simberkoff, MD Associate Dean for Veterans Affairs Medical Center Erik P. Sulman, MD, PhD Assistant Dean for Physician Scientist Education Susanne Tranguch, PhD, MBA Associate Dean for Research Training and Communications Marc M. Triola, MD Associate Dean for Educational Informatics Jonathan H. Weider, BA Assistant Dean for Advanced Applications Kenneth G. Langone, Chair Founder & CEO Invemed Associates Fiona B. Druckenmiller, Co-Chair Founder FD Gallery Laurence D. Fink, Co-Chair Chairman & CEO BlackRock Roberto A. Mignone, Vice Chair Founder and Managing Partner Bridger Management Thomas S. Murphy, Jr., Vice Chair Co-Founder and Partner Crestview Trustees William R. Berkley Executive Chairman W. R. Berkley Corporation Casey Box Director of Global Strategy The Christensen Fund Edgar Bronfman, Jr. Managing Partner Accretive Susan Block Casdin Kenneth I. Chenault Chairman and Managing Director General Catalyst Evan R. Chesler, Esq. (Ex Officio) Retired Partner Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP Gary Cohn Vice Chairman IBM William J. Constantine Lori Fink Luiz Fraga Co-Founder & Co-CIO of Private Equity Gavea Investimentos Paolo Fresco Trudy Elbaum Gottesman Robert I. Grossman, MD (Ex Officio) Dean and CEO William J. Haugland Chairman and CEO Haugland Group LLC Wayne Holman, MD ’98 Founder and CEO, Ridgeback Capital Co-Founder, Ridgeback Biotherapeutics Mel Karmazin David A. Katz, Esq. Partner Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz Christina Kirby, MD Emergency Medicine Physician Martin Lipton, Esq. Stephen F. Mack Principal Mack Real Estate Group Linda G. Mills, PhD (Ex Officio) President Thomas K. Montag CEO Rubicon Carbon Deven Parekh Managing Director Insight Partners Isaac Perlmutter Laura Perlmutter Michael Rafferty President & CEO Rafferty Holdings, LLC Stephanie Rein, MD Clinical Associate Professor, Medicine Richard P. Richman Founder and Chairman The Richman Group Linda Robinson E. John Rosenwald, Jr. J.P. Morgan Chase Barry F. Schwartz Emeritus Vice Chairman MacAndrews & Forbes, Inc. Larry A. Silverstein Chairman Silverstein Properties, Inc. Carla Solomon, PhD William C. Steere, Jr. Chair Emeritus Pfizer Inc. Daniel Sundheim Founder & CIO D1 Capital Partners Chandrika Tandon Chair Tandon Capital Associates Alice M. Tisch Thomas J. Tisch Four Partners Robert M. Valletta Jan T. Vilcek, MD, PhD Professor Emeritus of Microbiology Anthony Welters BlackIvy Group, LLC Overseers Stephen F. Mack, Chair Julia Arnhold Overview Capital Heather Baker, PhD Joshua Bank Executive Vice President Alloy Entertainment Turner Batty Trader Jane Street Capital Shivashish Chatterjee Co-Founder & Joint Managing Director DMI Finance Private Limited Melanie J. Clark James Dieterich Jamie Dimon JPMorgan Chase & Co. William Greenblatt Montague Street Capital Paul Tudor Jones Founder, Co-Chairman, and CIO Tudor Investment Corporation Maureen Sherry Klinsky Jimmy Levin Chief Investment Officer Sculptor Capital Management James F. McCann Founder and CEO 1-800 Flowers.com, Inc Allison Mignone Edward S. Pantzer Chairman Emeritus Pantzer Properties, Inc. Lauren Sands LES Collection Ted Segal EJS Group Henry R. Silverman CEO and Owner 54 Madison Partners Allen R. Thorpe Hellman & Friedman Sara Wechter Chief Human Resources Officer Citigroup Inc. Sharon Wee Hansjörg Wyss David Zaslav President and CEO Warner Bros. Discovery Emeritus Board Irma R. Hilton, PhD Laurence C. Leeds, Jr. Frank T. Nickell Kelso & Company Anesthesiology, Perioperative Care and Pain Medicine Andrew D. Rosenberg, MD Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology Michele Pagano, MD Cell Biology Andrea H. Brand, PhD Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Jennifer Havens, MD Seth J. Orlow, MD, PhD Emergency Medicine Robert J. Femia, MD, MBD Medicine Steven Abramson, MD Microbiology Benjamin tenOever, PhD Steven L. Galetta, MD Neuroscience and Physiology Paul W. Glimcher, PhD John G. Golfinos, MD Dana R. Gossett, MD Kathryn A. Colby, MD, PhD Umamaheswar Duvvuri, MD, PhD Pathology Iannis Aifantis, PhD Pediatrics Population Health Lorna E. Thorpe, PhD, MPH Psychiatry Michael P. Recht, MD Rehabilitation Medicine Steven R. Flanagan, MD Building Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone , at the corner of 34th Street and First Avenue in Manhattan, is designed specifically to accommodate the needs of young patients and their families. It is an integral part of NYU Langone’s , which opened in June 2018. A hospital-within-a-hospital, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital features all private rooms. The objective is to create a dedicated healing environment addressing the special medical, surgical, and psychological needs of children. VIDEO: Children and families benefit from our focus on comfort, privacy, and patient safety at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street. Designed to be uniquely child-friendly and family-oriented, the new Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital provides: a separate street entrance and elevator lobby exclusive to pediatric services a pediatric procedures center, as well as dedicated pediatric acute care and intensive care units overnight accommodations for a parent, if desired, for a child’s entire hospital stay a family resource room, teen room, expressive arts room, consult rooms, and more a landscaped outdoor garden with sweeping city views NYU Langone’s plan for providing world-class patient care on its main campus hinges upon the newly built, state-of-the-art, 830,000-square-foot , alongside . The Kimmel Pavilion opened in June 2018. Together, Kimmel Pavilion and Tisch Hospital facilities offer a seamless patient experience, with the buildings directly connected on procedural and imaging floors, and on the lobby level concourse. The two facilities also share central sterilization and other support services. Planning Kimmel Pavilion from scratch allowed senior leadership at NYU Langone to rethink how the facility could best accommodate emerging technologies, innovative clinical practices, and a growing emphasis on the patient experience. Its high-efficiency operating rooms are standardized but also flexible enough to quickly adapt to specific uses as needed. The layout optimizes efficiency by moving patients around less, bringing patient care equipment to the bedside, and freeing clinical staff to spend more time caring for patients. Kimmel Pavilion offers single-bed inpatient rooms, an innovation that greatly enhances infection control, allows for a more efficient workflow for staff in each room, and can better accommodate a patient’s family and visitors. It is also a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certified building, designed with sustainability in mind. Learn more about how Kimmel Pavilion reduces its environmental impacts through design and operations 96344-370 Virtual Interview Day Fridays! – Ambulatory Care Nurse – Long Island Job ID: 96344-370 Shift: Days Department: Nursing, FGP Amb Care Cobble Hill (S1818) Virtual Interview Day Every Friday – Ambulatory Care Nurse – Long Island Do you have a passion in making a difference in patients lives through quality patient care?  Come join our multispecialty teams in Long Island!  Seeking nurses with experience in Ambulatory Care. In this role, the successful candidate will support the coordination, integration, communication, implementation and evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures. In this role, the Ambulatory Care Nurse will participate in site and organizational quality and performance improvement activities, collect patient healthcare data systematically using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments, and collaborate with licensed providers to develop patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes. The Ambulatory Care Nurse provides comprehensive care in support of all patients manifested requirements through: administration of treatments and medication, acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms, disease prevention guidance, rehabilitation care, public health care, and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling. Specific activities include, but are not limited to: • Provides information, counsel, and education to patients and families regarding test results and treatment plans as directed • Administers medications (including vaccination, IV therapy, oxygen administration), provides comprehensive wound care, and performs phone and in-person patient triage for clinical concerns. • Assesses and monitors patient responses to various treatments, procedures, and anesthesia. • Assesses and interprets patient information, making treatment decisions as appropriate • Directs, supervises, and delegates to licensed practical nurses, medical assistants and technicians as needed to support patient flow and efficiency • Supports the coordination, integration, communication, implementation and performance evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures • Supports key quality initiatives (e.g. MIPS, Care gap management) to impact clinical outcome measures. • Demonstrates knowledge of the NYULH Service Standards and incorporates into the performance of responsibilities. • Participates in designated activities related to NYULH clinical standards and regulations of relevant outside agencies. • Supports the missions, philosophy, standards, goals and objectives of NYULH, Departments of Nursing, and FPG • Participates in coordination of on-site activities to provide patient care in a healing, humane and caring environment. • Collaborates with members of the interdisciplinary team and promotes collegial relationships. • Serves as a support and resource for nursing, other clinical staff and providers • Participates in clinical inquiry and activities to foster evidence-based practice. • Embraces fundamental values and obligations beyond that of a private citizen including ethical obligations and a recognition of patients’ rights to confidentiality. (NYSED, 2009) • Functions as a respectful member of the health care team.• Delegates and oversees specific nursing interventions to implement patient care plans to members of the health care team as deemed appropriate by job description and license/certification. • Engages in self-assessment and participates in activities to promote own professional growth and development • Seeks, acquires and maintains current nursing knowledge and competence to fulfill responsibilities as FGP Ambulatory Nurse. • Utilizes resources to meet individual learning needs and promote professional development in clinical practice. • Maintains awareness of current patient centered, evidence-based practice and considers applicable research data to patient care delivery • Executes medical regimens as prescribed by licensed providers: (physicians, dentists, nurse practitioners, certified midwife, physician assistants, podiatrists) • Assessment: Assess patients, identify unmet patient needs and plan comprehensive care to meet those needs in relation to the patient’s illness, condition or disability. • Case-finding: Identify unidentified co-morbidities or emergent complications and report to the provider so that an intervention may be ordered. • Co-ordination: Integrate care with other health care providers such as respiratory therapists, physical therapists, social workers, physicians, nurse practitioners, dieticians, navigators, and discharge planners. • Provision of direct care services: Provides physical care in the entire patient’s manifested requirements including but not limited to administration of treatments and medication, acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms, disease prevention guidance, rehabilitation care, public health care, and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling. • Collects and documents patient clinical historical and assessment data. • Performs onsite testing, e.g.: POC lab testing, EKG, specimen collection (including phlebotomy), auditory & visual test, psychiatric & physical risk screening, fetal monitoring (ante partum) and non-stress test, spirometry, allergy skin testing, bladder, tb skin testing and result evaluation. • Performs medical and nursing treatments in accordance with plan of care, provider orders, and NYSBON scope of practice. • Perform procedures, e.g.: hot & cold applications, placement/ removal of orthopedic appliances, casts, splints, suture and staple removal, urinary bladder irrigation w/ and w/o chemotherapy, insertion/removal/catheter care of urinary catheter, ear irrigation. • Applies and removes dressings, and performs wound care • Performs patient monitoring including pre, intra, post procedure, testing, medication administration, medical/surgical treatment and/or sedation • Provides medication administration: (IM, PO, SQ, ID, IV topical, inhalation, ocular, vaginal, rectal) as per provider orders or protocols to patients in practice, following nursing rights of medication administration and organizational policies. This includes oxygen therapy. • Facilitates medication refills by reviewing clinical information and preparing order for provider (prospective) authorization in EMR. • Administers IV therapy: including blood, blood products, IV fluids, chemotherapy (with proper certification), IV medications via peripheral or central venous devices. • Starts and discontinues peripheral IV lines. • Ensures clinical in-baskets are managed and encounters closed in a timely manner. • Receives, documents, and reports critical lab values as indicated • Relays normal and abnormal clinical results, follow up, and explanation to patients, as directed by provider. • Performs preliminary review of results for prioritization of urgent findings, then notifies provider for final verification. • Performs in person and phone triage for patient clinical concerns with appropriate escalation; provides clinical advice as within RN scope and/or direction from provider. • Performs Care/Case management of a defined population via multi-disciplinary plan to coordinate/facilitate patient care as needed. • Identifies, through case-finding and critical analysis, patient, family and/or community deviations from health and wellbeing; advocates for, initiates and/or recommends appropriate actions including the establishment of safe environments. • Collects patient healthcare data systematically and continuously, using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments. • Reports deviations requiring medical diagnosis and/or treatment to provider. • Escalates urgent/emergent deviations to medical provider and/or emergency care. • Identifies expected outcomes and anticipates unexpected or adverse outcomes as individualized to the patient. • Considers needs and behaviors of specific patient age and cultural groups in all patient care activities. • Assesses patient’s ability to adapt to new situations and circumstances created by changes in health status and/or environment. • Identifies barriers to optimal care, e.g. physical, cognitive, language, literacy, socioeconomic, cultural, and or behavioral • Assesses & identifies learning needs; documents and updates accordingly. • Develops patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes, and partners with patients to set individualized goals • Educates patients and families to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns. • Implements interventions identified in the plan of care. • Evaluates patient progress toward attainment of expected outcomes. •   Drives consistency in every patient and colleague encounter by embodying the core principles of our FGP Service Strategy CARES (Connect, Align, Respond, Ensure, and Sign-Off) •   Greets patients warmly and professionally, stating name and role, and clearly communicates each step of the care/interaction as appropriate •    Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person, by phone or via electronic messaging. •    Proactively anticipates patient needs, and participates in service recovery by applying the LEARN model (Listen, Empathize, Apologize, Resolve, Notify), and escalates to leadership as appropriate. •    Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity, to improve patient experience and patient access, with appropriate leadership. (i.e. ways to optimize provider schedules, how to minimize delays, increase employee engagement, etc.) •    Partners with Patient Access Center and Central Billing Office team members to support collaboration and promote a positive patient experience. •    Takes a proactive approach in ensuring that practice staff are fully versed in the Access Agreement gold standard principles. BSN. A Nursing Diploma or Associates Degree in Nursing requires a minimum of one year experience in conjunction with plans to earn a baccalaureate degree required. Current Registered Professional Nurse in New York licensure is required. BLS is also required. Emergency room or critical care nursing experience and membership in pertinent professional organizations preferred. Membership in pertinent professional organization preferred. Fluent written and spoken English language skills necessary. Physical stamina, manual dexterity, visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities needed also required. BSN is highly preferred; a Diploma or Associates Degree in Nursing requires a minimum of one year experience in conjunction with plans to earn a baccalaureate degree required. Current Registered Professional Nurse in New York, Bachelor’s degree in Nursing required, Basic Life Support Certification through the American Heart Association, Fluent written and spoken English language skills.. ACLS certification. Membership in pertinent professional organizations. Registered Nurse License-NYS, Basic Life Support Certification NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $106,000.00 – $106,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 88486-370 Clinical Histology Tech I (Monday – Friday 5pm to 1am) Job ID: 88486-370 Shift: Monday-Friday, 5pm to 1am Department: Clinical Labs, Clin Labs-Anatomic Pathology (H667) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Clinical Histology Tech I. VIRTUAL INTERVIEW DAY – Apply now to schedule interview. In this role, the successful candidate prepares tissue specimens for pathological examination. Specimen Embedding and Microtomy QC/QA Participation Filing of blocks and slides and slide distribution Participation in supply inventory management and ordering if applicable Proper use of LIS;Powerpath andOmni-Trax Utilizing the Cryostat for Preparation of Frozen Sections. Utilizing,maintaining, and troubleshooting all equipment; tissue processors (VIP &Peloris), Ventana Nexus, XT, andUltras, and all histology equipment. Slide coverslipping and labeling H/E and special staining and preparation of solutions NYSDOH Licensed as a Certified Clinical Laboratory histotechnician, histotechnologist, technician, or technologist. Associates Degree from a relevant course of study as defined by NYS clinical laboratory licensing requirements. A highschool degree will only be accepted if the individual has the designated experience defined by NYS and has obtained their NYS license through the grandparenting pathway defined by NYS. Experience required is 6 months – 1 year in a surgical pathology laboratory. Exposure to Computer systems. Good communication skills.. Preferred Licenses: Certified Histo Technician-NYS, Clinical Lab Technician-NYS, Clinical Lab Technologist-NYS Bachelors Degree. HTL(ASCP) Certification. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $83,008.00 – $105,060.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Pathology Data Associate Clinical Labs Clinical Laboratory Technologist - Microbiology Per Diem Phlebotomist NYU Langone Health has a long history of engagement with the surrounding community that dates back to the founding of in 1841. At present, NYU Langone owns and leases more than 6 million square feet throughout the 5 boroughs, with more than 2 million square feet of that on the main campus alone. The depth and breadth of its service is further strengthened by longstanding affiliations with neighboring institutions, especially NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. Historically, outpatient care has been centered on the main campus between 34th and 30th Streets, as well as campus on East 17th Street. Also in close proximity to the main campus is , the largest freestanding facility of its kind in the country. There are several other NYU Langone sites clustered between 30th and 38th Streets. Other facilities outside this immediate neighborhood include the Finally, a growing portfolio of practices in the New York metropolitan region continues to expand NYU Langone’s reach, including in Brooklyn; NYU Langone Cardiovascular Associates in Queens; and on Long Island. We have also established a presence in Palm Beach County, Florida, with the NYU Langone Medical Associates—Delray Beach In operation since 1962 and the long-standing heart of NYU Langone, is undergoing a series of continual renovations that are a key component of the larger campus transformation project. Tisch Hospital’s updates are proceeding in stages, with many important projects either finished or under construction, and others yet to come. Among the highest profile renovations is the Tisch Hospital Elevator Tower, which added a new 4-car elevator bank inside a freestanding 18-story structure, connected to the hospital’s 18-story bed tower. This project included the expansion and renovation of the main lobby, which together with the tower addition has helped ease visitor access to the upper floors and dramatically improved overall foot traffic flow. The renovation also added substantial new patient and visitor amenities, both to the main lobby—including a new reception area and meditation room—and to each of the upper inpatient floors. What’s more, the new tower and lobby offer visitors a gracious entrance on the first floor and welcoming spaces on all patient floors. Additional projects included in Tisch’s refurbishment include a new clinical core lab, new vascular and interventional radiology and endoscopy suites, and expansion of the Division of Anatomic Pathology in the Department of Pathology. NYU Langone’s Science Building is a new facility encompassing more than 365,000 square feet and 10 floors of laboratory space dedicated to research, including wet laboratory space, core facilities, a new vivarium, conference spaces, and public amenities in an expansive, integrated environment. Positioned at 30th Street and the FDR Service Road, just south of the Joan and Joel Smilow Research Center, the Science Building is the centerpiece of NYU Langone’s transformation at the southernmost end of the main campus, and provides a prominent new gateway to research and education on campus. Like other major components of the campus transformation, the new Science Building expands upon NYU Langone’s existing strengths—in this case, advanced biomedical research. The building’s design helps strategically integrate research facilities and services so that investigators, students, faculty, and clinicians can work more efficiently and collaboratively. Its laboratory floors are designed to be open, efficient, flexible, and easily adaptable with cutting-edge, shared equipment to accommodate advances in research over time. The expansive new Science Building also enables to accommodate new recruits and projected growth in funded research. It is also a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certified building, designed with sustainability in mind. Learn more about how the Science Building Vicki Match Suna, AIA, oversees strategic campus planning, design, construction, maintenance, food and nutrition, and facilities operations, as well as leasing, acquisition, and management of properties for NYU Langone Health’s real estate portfolio, which totals more than 15 million square feet and comprises over 550 clinical, research, administrative, and residential locations in the greater New York metro region, Florida, and Las Vegas. She leads the implementation of NYU Langone’s , adopting a comprehensive and consistent design approach to creating healthy environments in the healthcare setting; and to reimagining resilient and sustainable design. The effort encompasses the redevelopment of the Manhattan main campus; ; and expansion of an extensive portfolio of a mbulatory care facilities Ms. Match Suna oversaw the design and construction of the award-winning Joel and Joan Smilow Research Center in 2016, as well as the award-winning in 2018; she also oversees the ongoing transformation of Tisch Hospital . Under her leadership, the Manhattan campus became the first worldwide to receive U.S. Green Building Council Performance Excellence in Electricity Renewal (PEER) and Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certifications. She also led the campus’ recovery and resiliency efforts following Superstorm Sandy in late 2012. A registered architect and a member of the American Institute of Architects (AIA), Ms. Match Suna previously served as a commissioner on the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, board member of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, and a member of the advisory board of the Governors Island Preservation and Education Corporation. She currently is on the board of the New York Building Congress, and is a member of the Business Advisory Council of the Children’s Tumor Foundation and a member of the Real Estate Board of New York. In addition, Ms. Match Suna is a member of the board of trustees of Washington University in St. Louis, where she also serves as chair of the Sam Fox School of Visual Arts and Design, and as a member of Washington University’s New York Regional Cabinet. Ms. Match Suna was an honoree of the New York City Commission on the Status of Women and recipient of the Art Trek Award from the Queens Council on the Arts. In 2010, she received the Center for Architecture Award from the New York Chapter of the AIA and the Center for Architecture Foundation. She received a Sam Fox School Distinguished Alumni Award in 2014 from Washington University in St. Louis; and in 2016, the Washington University’s Founders Day Distinguished Alumni Award. Ms. Match Suna was named as one of Crain’s Notable Leaders in Real Estate in 2022. Ms. Match Suna joined NYU Langone in 1994. She was appointed senior vice president and vice dean for real estate development and facilities in 2007; and was named executive vice president in 2019. She holds a bachelor of arts and a master’s degree in architecture from Washington University in St. Louis. 99521-370 Virtual Interview Day Fridays! Medical Assistant – Center for Men's Health Manhattan Job ID: 99521-370 Shift: M-F Flex 7a – 6p Department: Administrative/Office Support, Ambulatory/Outpatient Preston Robert Tisch Center for Mens Health Virtual Interview Fridays! Medical Assistant – Center for Men’s Health Manhattan We have exciting opportunities available at the Center for Men’s Health in Manhattan.  This is a large multispecialty facility that services our men’s population in the areas of cardiology, dermatology, endocrinology, allergy and dermatology.  For immediate consideration, please apply online. We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Faculty Group Practice Medical Assistant (35). In this role, the successful candidate The Medical Assistant is responsible for assisting physicians and/or Advanced Care Practitioners and nurses in providing patient care This role is responsible for validating patient identifiers preparing patients and rooms for examination measuring and recording vital signs drawing blood and collecting other lab samples The Medial Assistant is also responsible for administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments answering phone calls and performing data entry Escorts patients to exam rooms Cleans and stocks exam rooms Measures and records patient vital signs Obtains and processes blood samples as per NYULH policy Support equality initiatives by following FGP guidelines for collecting and documenting information in the EMR Promotes a positive patient experience Communicates effectively with providers and administrative staff escalate issues Answers phone calls Reviews and respond to in basket messages Follows up on Rx refill requests Assists physician with patient intake amp; transcribing visit into EPIC Performs other duties as needed Clinical Administrative Responsibilities; Completes necessary intake which includes obtaining patient vital signs and other tests within defined scope of practice as needed nbsp; nbsp; Follows guidelines for validating patient medical record when accessing and updating information including patient name and date of birth nbsp; Assists with maintaining patient flow to and from exam rooms and treatment areas Assists in escorting patients and specimens throughout the facility Ensures exam rooms and treatment areas are cleaned per infection control standards after each patient nbsp; Communicates the functionality and purpose of MyChart to patients during intake Ensures the appropriate translation services or equipment is in place prior to the start of visit nbsp; Assists with blood/specimen collection and ensures proper handling and processing of patient specimens as as per organizational policy amp; procedure Performs Point of Care testing such as: EKG Glucose Testing and Pregnancy Test Urinalysis following organizational policy amp; procedure and with documentation of any required competency in place Preps the appropriate patient encounter ensuring that all relevant information for visit is up to date including bloodwork radiology images medications and past medical history nbsp; Reviews and imports any Prepare for your Visit Outside Information and patient history prior to provider encounter Works with clinical team to ensure logbooks related to equipment specimen collection and other clinical safety measures are followed per FGP standards Supports best practice workflows for MIPS by updating medical records with patient vital signs and Histories Immunization Medical amp; Surgical nbsp;May also be required to scan and/or upload diagnostic reports according to their description and link them to their associated order in Epic Maintains patient privacy as it relates to HIPPA standards Handles appropriate patient calls and documents outcome of all patient communications as needed Refers all clinical questions/concerns to RN/Provider Assists with inbasket message management including any necessary tasks related to patient medical advice requests as per best practices Utilizes EPIC functionality to review and update patient records as well as maintain communication with peers and supervisors related to patient care Assists physicians with procedure and/or set up according to the specialty where necessary nbsp; Stocks exam/treatment rooms and/or supply closets with medical supplies linen and medical equipment as needed Effectively communicates as supplies need to be replenished Cleans and sterilizes designated equipment after use following organizational policy amp; guidelines and with documentation of required competency in place Supports FGP Clinical Quality Management by facilitating appropriate documentation and maintenance of clinical supplies and equipment Reviews appropriate downtime procedures as it relates to patient visit nbsp; Completes annual competencies such as Fire Safety Hazardous Waste Medsled HIPPA compliance etc nbsp; Partners with administrative and clinical personnel to complete prior authorization medication refills and referrals related to patient continuity of care Assists with prescription refill request by locating requested prescription in EMR identifying last patient visit and tasking RN LPN or Provider to evaluate set up and/or process for renewal Accompanies physician into exam room and transcribes history including history of present illness past medical and surgical history family and social histories medications and allergies physical exam laboratory and radiologic orders as dictated by the MD and document accurately the physician #39;s encounter with the patient List all proper diagnoses and symptoms as well as follow up instructions and prescriptions as dictated by the physician Documents patient orders including laboratory tests radiology tests medications etc Performs other duties as assigned Patient Experience and Access nbsp; Drives consistency in every patient and colleague encounter by embodying the core principles of our FGP Service Strategy CARES Connect Align Respond Ensure and Sign Off Greets patients warmly and professionally stating name and role and clearly communicates each step of the care/interaction as appropriate Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person by phone or via electronic messaging nbsp; Proactively anticipates patient needs and participates in service recovery by applying the LEARN model Listen Empathize Apologize Resolve Notify and escalates to leadership as appropriate Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity to improve patient experience and patient access with appropriate leadership i e ways to optimize provider schedules how to minimize delays increase employee engagement etc Partners with Patient Access Center and Central Billing Office team members to support collaboration and promote a positive patient experience Takes a proactive approach in ensuring that practice staff are fully versed in the Access Agreement gold standard principles To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or the equivalent Completion of a Medical Assistant Program from an accredited institution OR upon hire hold a current medical assistant Certification from a Nationally Recognized accredited institution such as American Association of Medical Assistant AAMA ; American Medical Technologies AMT ; National Center for Competency Testing NCCT ; National Healthcare Association NHA Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; demonstrated ability in computer skills Ability to complete multiple tasks efficiently and thrive in a team work environment which pursues a positive patient care experience MA experience preferred EKG phlebotomy and venipuncture experience preferred NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $41,977.18 – $58,300.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Patient Experience Associate Administrative/Office Support Brooklyn, NY Family Physician Patient Services Associate, Required Bilingual Spanish - Brooklyn Medical Assistant - (FGP) *on site - West Palm Beach* West Palm Beach, FL 99837-370 Virtual Interview Day – Psychotherapist (LCSW) – Remote Opportunities Available Job ID: 99837-370 Facility:() Department: Social Work, Psychiatry-Clinical Svc (S826) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW). In this role, the successful candidate responsible for the clinical duties of a Clinical Social Worker, which are to evaluate and treat patients with psychiatric disorders.  This role can be performed in a hybrid or remote capacity. Provides psychological care to all assigned patients, including evaluation, determination of psychiatric disorder, formulation of treatment plan and all necessary documentation. Adheres to appropriate clinical documentation to ensure compliance with current standards of clinical practice, and adherence to all regulatory-accreditation standards. Responsible for liaison with other disciplines, patient families and institutions, as it pertains to assigned patients. Provides individual and group treatment either in person or via telehealth visits. Must be comfortable delivering care via telehealth. To qualify you must have a Licensed Clinical Social Workers (LCSWs) licensed in New York State. Five years of experience in psychotherapy. Licensed Social Worker – NYS NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $80,000.00 – $90,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Supervisor-School Behavioral Social Worker - Per Diem - Outpatient & Acute Dialysis - Mineola Social Worker - Medicine 1138165_RR00100673 Job ID: 1138165_RR00100673 Position Type: Temporary Shift: Per Diem Department: Clinical Labs, Clin Labs-Outpatient Lab (H188) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Per Diem Phlebotomist. In this role, the successful candidate will be responsible for performing routine technical duties in a laboratory or patient area. Performs routine Phlebotomy in a laboratory or patient area Aware of patients frame of mind and general appearance before proceeding with venipuncture Cleans the area and secures the tourniquet Inserts the needle accurately into the vein and draws the blood properly Draws the number and types of tubes in accordance with the requisition Strictly follows departmental and standard operating procedures Completes all procedures during assigned shift Performs Quality Control Phlebotomy Procedures in the laboratory Disposes of used needles immediately after use in the appropriate containers Carries out safety and quality control procedures on a daily basis Strictly complies with isolation and sterile procedures Labels the specimens and brings them into the main processing area in a timely manner Labels all specimens accurately by affixing the computer processing label Brings STATS to appropriate departments immediately Returns specimens to verifying area when rack is filled and before breaks lunchtime and end of shift Labels Blood bank specimens properly as set by laboratory protocol High school diploma or the equivalent required One year of Phlebotomy experience performing venipunctures and finger sticks Practical knowledge of information system operations Phlebotomy Certificate and/or Certification in Medical Assisting required Appropriate interpersonal skills for interacting with patients, physicians, and other customers of the Outpatient Lab Strong verbal communication skills in English language Strong writing skills in the English language to include but not limited to legibility neatness and completeness of thought Detail oriented capable of handling stress from irregular workload and demonstrate businesslike and professional attitude at all times The phlebotomist must demonstrate expertise with the performance of the wide range of phlebotomy duties per laboratory procedure to include procedures on patients ranging from pediatric adolescent adult and geriatric. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $33.92  Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138275_RR00100451 Clinical Laboratory Technologist – Microbiology Job ID: 1138275_RR00100451 Shift: Monday – Friday 4pm to 12am, Alternating Weekends Department: Clinical Labs, Clin Labs-Microbiology (H195) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Clinical Laboratory Technologist. In this role, the successful candidate will be responsible for performing complex clinical laboratory tests on specimens for diagnostic purposes under minimal supervision. Performs routine microbiological/immunological testing of specimens on technologist level Checks specimens for accuracy and appropriate containers Correctly subcultures to specific media for optimal recovery of microbes Possesses ability to identify presence of microbes by culture antibody or other means Possesses ability to perform antibiotic susceptibilities if applicable Able to accurately interpret & record results of testing Can differentiate normal & abnormal results Reports promptly via computer or telephone Reviews results & consults appropriate reference sources when needed Consults with superiors to assist interpretation when necessary Performs Quality Control measures to ensure accuracy of results Performs laboratory tests and procedures which require technical skill and an exercise of independent judgment with minimal supervision and documents results to ensure compliance with Medical Center and regulatory requirements Applies sound technical judgment in evaluating problems and developing prompt reasonable workable alternatives which benefit the patient within established guidelines of the department Handles varying workloads while maintaining accuracy Follows approved policies and procedures in performing specific methodologies and instrument operations and follows approved policies for proper recording accuracy and legibility and reporting of all results Calls Critical Values to nursing unit immediately upon their completion and records the name of person to whom the results were given as well as the time of the call Demonstrates sufficient knowledge or expertise in dealing with scientific principles involved in the methodology performed; as well as alternative methodologies and their application to a given situation Brings unresolved problems to the attention of a supervisor/assistant supervisor s and is prepared to report on the results of initial problem investigation and discuss possible causes and solutions by presenting factual and objective data Performs additional procedures as required to ensure the quality of the laboratory testing performed; and documents this activity Performs and records periodic quality control analysis instrument function checks and preventive maintenance procedures following approved policy Correlates final patient result with known facts concerning the patients history previous results to determine goodness of fit and recognized illogical results Follows approved guidelines in approaches to problem solving and devises appropriate courses of action when patient results control values and instrument function parameters are inconsistent or invalid: including investigation of possible sources of variance/interference by taking appropriate action and/or performing additional testing as necessary to assure the accuracy of the reported patient value Maintains sufficient working supplies in order to assure the continued integrity of workstation operations Maintains up to date pending logs to ensure that all specimens have been processed accordingly Performs and documents preventive maintenance procedures and instrument function checks Performs preventive maintenance procedures at each workstation as required Documents all maintenance performed both scheduled and unscheduled Documents all required information in the appropriate section of the instrument problem log NYSDOH Licensed as a Certified Clinical Laboratory Technologist Bachelor’s Degree in Clinical Laboratory Technology from a program registered by the NYS Department of Education or Bachelor’s Degree in the major of biology chemistry or physical sciences from an accredited college or university or education requirement grandfathered by the NYSOP One year experience in a clinical laboratory completion of an internship at a qualified institution is acceptable Effective Interpersonal Communication skills required. Proficient computer skills ASCP registry preferred Multitasking abilities and flexibility are a plus NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $96,670.42 – $121,542.23 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138600_RR00100957 Job ID: 1138600_RR00100957 Shift: 9:30AM – 5:30PM Monday – Friday Department: Clinical Labs, NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Surgical Pathology (W6159) NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island is a 591-bed university-affiliated medical center, which offers sophisticated diagnostic and therapeutic care in virtually every specialty and subspecialty of medicine and surgery. We are a major regional healthcare resource with a deep commitment to medical education and research, offering a full complement of inpatient and outpatient services. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Pathology Data Associate. In this role, the successful candidate Performs clerical and support activities necessary to assist in laboratory operations Serves as a communications resource and facilitates the collection and transfer of information both internally and externally Assists medical nursing and administrative staff to meet unit department and institutional goals Adheres to the department’s Standard Operating policies and procedures, Recognizes process failures and takes effective corrective action. Determines acceptable quality of requisitions and reports and logs and faxes. Notifies manger in the case of any problematic processes and audits and records in departmental computer system all specific information. Assists in the coaching, mentoring and training of new clerical accessioning staff. Maintains legal retrievals and filing and documentation for Risk Management issues with tracking of any specimensslidesblocks through computer system. Prioritizes work in an efficient manner. Appropriately accessions and organizes 2nd patient requestsconsultations2nd opinion returns. Recognizes unsafe working conditions and takes corrective action. Follows OSHA regulations for PPE (Personnel Protective Equipment) such as lab coats, gloves and protective shields when in contact with blood and body fluids. Participates in unit based quality improvement initiatives. Attends and participates in staff meetings and in-services or obtains information presented. Retrieves and analyzes Anatomic Pathology reports and requisitions. Tabulates TAT, autopsy rates, clinical pathological correlations and quality assurance data. Maintains records and files accurately within regulatory compliance and computer tracking system. To qualify you must have a High School or GED 1-2 years Collecting and reporting of Blood Bank data and statistics Strong communication; both oral and written, multitasking detail orientation, organizational customer service and interpersonal skills Strong computer skills including Microsoft Office especially Excel Word PowerPoint and Outlook Knowledge of statistical computation analysis data collection and reporting NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $45,860.07 – $70,553.95 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138400_RR00100611 Medical Assistant – (FGP) *on site – West Palm Beach* Job ID: 1138400_RR00100611 Facility: NYU Langone Health in Florida Shift: Monday – Friday Department: Administrative/Office Support, FGP Med Assoc West Palm Beach (F128) NYU Langone Health in Florida We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Medical Assistant in our West Palm Beach Family Group Practice (FGP). The Medical Assistant is responsible for assisting physicians and/or Advanced Care Practitioners and nurses in providing patient care.  This role is responsible for validating patient identifiers, preparing patients and rooms for examination, measuring and recording vital signs, drawing blood and collecting other lab samples. The Medial Assistant is also responsible for administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments answering phone calls and performing data entry. • Escorts patients to exam rooms • Cleans and stocks exam rooms • Measures and records patient vital signs • Obtains and processes blood samples as per NYULH policy • Supports quality initiatives by following FGP guidelines for collecting and documenting information in the EMR • Promotes a positive patient experience • Communicates effectively with providers and administrative staff escalate issues • Answers phone calls • Reviews and respond to in basket messages • Follows up on Rx refill requests • Assists physician with patient intake & transcribing visit into EPIC Patient Experience and Access Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person by phone or via electronic messaging Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity to improve patient experience and patient access with appropriate leadership i e ways to optimize provider schedules how to minimize delays increase employee engagement etc. Clinical & Administrative Responsibilities Completes necessary intake which includes obtaining patient vital signs and other tests within defined scope of practice as needed Follows guidelines for validating patient medical record when accessing and updating information including patient name and date of birth Ensures exam rooms and treatment areas are cleaned per infection control standards after each patient Ensures the appropriate translation services or equipment is in place prior to the start of visit Assists with blood/specimen collection and ensures proper handling and processing of patient specimens as as per organizational policy & procedure Performs Point of Care testing such as: EKG Glucose Testing and Pregnancy Test Urinalysis following organizational policy & procedure and with documentation of any required competency in place Preps the appropriate patient encounter ensuring that all relevant information for visit is up to date including bloodwork radiology images medications and past medical history Reviews and imports any “Prepare for your Visit”  “Outside Information” and patient history prior to provider encounter Supports best practice workflows for MIPS by updating medical records with patient vital signs and Histories Immunization Medical & Surgical  May also be required to scan and/or upload diagnostic reports according to their description and link them to their associated order in Epic Assists physicians with procedure and/or set up according to the specialty where necessary Cleans and sterilizes designated equipment after use following organizational policy & guidelines and with documentation of required competency in place Reviews appropriate downtime procedures as it relates to patient visit Completes annual competencies such as Fire Safety Hazardous Waste Medsled HIPPA compliance etc. Accompanies physician into exam room and transcribes history including history of present illness past medical and surgical history family and social histories medications and allergies physical exam laboratory and radiologic orders as dictated by the MD and document accurately the physician’s encounter with the patient Documents patient orders including laboratory tests radiology tests medications etc. To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or the equivalent completion of a Medical Assistant Program from an accredited institution OR upon hire hold a current medical assistant.  Certification from a Nationally Recognized accredited institution such as American Association of Medical Assistant AAMA ; American Medical Technologies AMT ; National Center for Competency Testing NCCT ; National Healthcare Association NHA Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; demonstrated ability in computer skills Ability to complete multiple tasks efficiently and thrive in a team work environment which pursues a positive patient care experience NYU Langone Florida is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Langone Florida’s EEO policies,please 1138317_RR00100878 Social Worker – Medicine Job ID: 1138317_RR00100878 Shift: M-F, 9a-5p Department: Social Work, NYU Langone Hospitals Social Services (H295) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Social Worker – Medicine. In this role, the successful candidate Under the Supervision of a Social Work Supervisor provides psychosocial assessment and counseling services including discharge planning to patients as assigned by the Department of Social Work Participates in interdisciplinary planning and unit/based interdepartmental meetings when requested Demonstrates knowledge of the organizations Service Standards and incorporates them into performance of duties Provides timely and effective psychosocial assessment and evaluations as required Uses clinical knowledge of psychosocial dynamics and interviewing techniques to gather social history define problems and develop a relevant treatment plan Partnering with Care Manager to ensure effective throughput Coordinates interdisciplinary information and recommendations into social work treatment plan and promotes timely post hospital/ discharge planning in the interest of patients/families Mobilizes community agencies and other support networks in the interest of patients/families Documents all social work activities in a timely manner according to departmental protocols Performs clinical duties in an independent manner with appropriate use of supervision Assists in ensuring that patients receive services in accordance with established departmental policies and procedures through review of medical records Is competent to care for patients of all age groups Regularly participates in individual/group supervision Prepares statistical documentation of work in assigned areas Demonstrates skill in presentation of psychosocial information in interdisciplinary rounds meetings and Rusk evaluation conferences Assists in the orientation of new staff or staff transferring to a new assignment When qualified i e three years post graduate SIFI eligible provides supervision to social work interns Conducts orientation patient/family groups educating and/or elaborating on information about diagnosis treatment options for post hospital care etc To qualify you must have a Masters Degree in social work or its equivalent e g a higher degree from a social work program that is registered by the New York State Education Department as qualifying for licensure from a recognized college or university program accredited by the Council on Social Work Education CSWE New York State licensure as a Licensed Master Social Worker LMSW or a New York Education Department issued limited permit. Lic Social Worker – NYS-Permit, Licensed Social Worker – NYS Previous experience in a hospital or health related organization NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $82,628.41 – $102,013.99 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138444_RR00100880 Social Worker – Per Diem – Outpatient & Acute Dialysis – Mineola Job ID: 1138444_RR00100880 Shift: Monday – Friday and Shifts Vary (Day and Evening) Department: Social Work, Dialysis, Mineola (W6127) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Social Worker – Per Diem – Outpatient & Acute Dialysis – Mineola. In this role, the successful candidate provides psychosocial assessments and treatment as well as consultation about patients and families to assist them and the health care team in coping with the patient’s hospitalization illness diagnosis treatment and/or life situation including emotional mental and substance abuse disorders. Provides psychosocial assessments of patients and families to identify emotional social and environmental strengths and problems related to their diagnosis illness treatment and/or life situation Formulates develops and implements a plan utilizing appropriate social work interventions Documents findings plan and actions taken according to departmental and institutional guidelines and standards Treats and manages mental health and/or substance abuse problems Assists with screening identification management and treatment of victims of abuse neglect domestic violence rape etc Provides training and consultative services to other health care professionals Arranges procures and coordinates patient and/or family pre and post hospital or treatment needs Provides education to patients and families around issues related to adaptation to the patient s diagnosis illness treatment and/or life situation May utilize crisis intervention brief and long term individual group and family therapies Provides teaching and training for students and staff from social work and other disciplines Participates in multi disciplinary health care teams and provides leadership in representing the social work perspective to and being an advocate for patients and families Maintains records and statistics according to departmental and institutional guidelines and standards Attends and participates in staff committee departmental institutional and other administrative meetings and continuous quality improvement efforts To qualify you must have a Master’s Degree Social Work. Current and valid New York State Licensed Master Social Worker LMSW license or Licensed Clinical Social Worker LCSW license. 1-2 years Social work or social work internship in a health care setting or social service agency. Solid working knowledge of social work practice relevant medical and/or legal issues that impact patient care and medical center resources to access and provide for patient care needs. Excellent communication both oral and written interpersonal assessment counseling multitasking detail orientation and organizational skills. Basic computer skills including Microsoft Office especially Word Excel and PowerPoint. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $48.00 – $48.00 Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1136769_RR00099109 Job ID: 1136769_RR00099109 Facility: Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Shift: Monday – Friday 9a-5p Department: Social Work, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone School Health-Behavioral Healt (P66044) Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, a designated Level 3 Medical Home, is the largest federally qualified health center network in New York State, and the second largest in the nation. It includes eight primary care sites, 40 school-based health centers and dental clinics, four day care centers, the nation’s largest dental residency program, and New York State’s largest behavioral health program. The network also includes 12 community medicine sites providing care to disenfranchised New Yorkers, comprehensive HIV services, chemical dependency programs, and a family support center that offers educational, vocational, and other social support programs. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. Learn more about Family Health Centers at NYU Langone and interact with us on We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Supervisor-School Behavioral. In this role, the successful candidate The Supervisor of School Behavioral Health is responsible for supervising behavioral health staff working in school based health centers The supervisor will be responsible for providing in person supervision review of paperwork and consultation by phone as needed In this role the supervisor will also ensure that his or her supervisees are in compliance with OMH JCAHO and NYU policies and standards Centers with Behavioral Health Programs to assure compliance with OMH and JCAHO standards Works in cooperation and collaboration with school BH and physical health dental staff and other school personnel to ensure the highest level of care to patients Assists in audit preparation for School Health and School Behavioral Health Programs Supervises Staff Psychologist and Social Workers Works with Clinicians to ensure Clinicians maintain accuracy and completeness of required records reports and files in accordance with NYU LFHC JCAHO and SOMH standards for quality care and quality charting Complies with established NYU Lutheran Family Health Centers and departmental policies and procedures objectives e g Lateness/Absenteeism dress code non smoking safety environmental and infection control and others Attends meetings as required and participates on committees as directed Provides assistance and guidance to School Behavioral Health Clinicians in assessment and intervention to patients in crisis or patients in need of emergency assistance Participates in performance management activities Implements and adheres to policies which assure the confidentiality of client communications in accordance with HIPAA SOMH and with the Joint Commission on Accreditation of health Care Organizations JCAHO standards Completes annual performance evaluations for all supervisees Conducts chart utilization reviews and works with supervisees at all School Based Health To qualify you must have a Masters in Social Work MSW or PhD or PsyD This position demands a high degree of competence and knowledge in the practice of psychotherapy with school age children/ adolescents adults and families as well as experience in supervising social workers and/or psychologists Educational Requirements: Masters in Social Work MSW and a NYS Licensed Clinical Social Worker LCSW or PhD or PsyD and licensed in NYS as a Clinical Psychologist Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s network provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s EEO policies, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $66,415.19 – $110,691.98 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138465_RR00100659 Family Physician Patient Services Associate, Required Bilingual Spanish – Brooklyn Job ID: 1138465_RR00100659 Shift: Monday and Wednesday 11AM-7PM. Tuesday, Thursday and Friday 9AM-5PM. Department: Administrative/Office Support, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Med-Family Phys (P68708) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Family Physician Patient Services Associate, Required Bilingual Spanish – Brooklyn. In this role, the successful candidate The Patient Service Associate performs diversified clerical functions in Registration/Information Appointments Patient Care modules and other areas such as Cashiering and Medical Records Duties may vary depending upon the needs of the work site Maintains the security and confidentiality of patient information at all times Greet all patients family or other related individuals while maintaining excellent customer service at all times Other functions as assigned by a supervisory staff Demonstrates an awareness of and respect for coworkers/patients cultural backgrounds Provides translation assistance as needed to facilitate the patient and provider interaction Reports problems with workflow conflicts further skill training and/or other related concerns to supervisory staff Works in conjunction with the healthcare team participating in site improvement efforts accepting coverage assignments Realizes integral role as part of a healthcare team and is an active participant regarding flow patient care process issues/suggestions barriers to care and safety concerns Discharge functions in accordance with LFHC discharge polices including but not limited to: a create follow up appointments in accordance with the providers instructions b create appointment for specialty services including radiology and ensure referrals are in place c print all necessary documents for patients to take home appointment records referrals and lab/radiology forms d distribute Metro Cards when appropriate Telephone functions in accordance with LFHC telephone polices including but not limited to: a answer phones timely in a friendly customer service manner including identifying the facility s name and PSA s first name b identify the nature of the call and act appropriately c take messages if necessary d confirmation calls for upcoming appointments Electronic Health Record eHR competencies in accordance with LFHC eHR polices including but not limited to: a scanning insurance card photo ID and consents and other forms as directed b capture patient photo for the eHR c web enable all eligible patients with email addresses d facilitate patient flow by changing visit status for office visit including Check out when discharged e Failed Appts Change status to No Show and assign for recall Monitor and address Recall bins as per Failed Appointment policy Financial functions in accordance with LFHC Financial polices including but not limited to:a Insurance eligibility verification at every visit b collect Co pays Deductibles Self Pay Rates when applicable c uninsured patients Determine eligibility for other financial programs and assist with application completion d performs Cashiering tasks as assigned Registration functions in accordance with LFHC Registration polices including but not limited to: a visit registration b translation needs & documentation c verification of demographic information including Home Address Proper phone number Email address d verification of Primary Care Provider e verify Site Indicator f obtain Photo ID and Insurance ID Card g obtain consent for treatment h offer new patient packages inclusive of LFHC programs and services contact phone numbers after hour information HIPAA and advance directive information To qualify you must have a HS Diploma Required 2 years relevant experience Strong customer service and communication skills Proficient in MS Excel Word and Outlook Familiarity or prior experience with office setting Prior customer service experience Must be articulate with good interpersonal skills Must have knowledge of computer keyboard able to type a minimum of 20 words per minute Must be able to accurately enter data Willingness to devote the time required completing assigned tasks on schedule NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $47,947.64 – $52,966.90 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138601_RR00100095 Job ID: 1138601_RR00100095 Facility: NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn Shift: Flex shift Department: Administrative/Office Support, NSG-Patient Experience (L176933) NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn is a full-service teaching hospital and Level I trauma center located in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. The hospital is central to a comprehensive network of affiliated ambulatory and outpatient practices, and serves as NYU Langone Health’s anchor for healthcare access, growth, and delivery in the entire borough. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. Learn more about NYU Hospital – Brooklyn We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Patient Experience Associate. In this role, the successful candidate The Patient Experience Associate welcomes and screens all visitors vendors patients and employees entering the hospital using excellent communication skills The Patient Experience Associate operates independently and is responsible for access control into the hospital by ensuring visitor and employee screening policies are enforced Responsible for access control into the hospital by ensuring all patients, visitors, vendors, and employees are properly screened as per hospital guidelines and policies. Demonstrates knowledge of NYULH current guidelines and polices related to visitor, patient, vendor, employee screening. Ensure visitor and employee screening polies are enforced by asking appropriate health screening questions. Properly takes the temperature of patients, visitors, vendors, and employees. Triage and escalate clinical concerns if patient fails screening to appropriate clinical departments. Collaborate and interact with the interdisciplinary team members & departments to support the needs of visitors, patients, vendors, and employees (i.e. collaborate with Security team for visitor/patient transport to Emergency Department, etc.) Ability to independently interact with visitors, vendors, patients, and employees entering the hospital in a prompt, respectful, and helpful manner through excellent communication skills. Assists with instruction/education of proper personal protective equipment (PPE) use, and provides masks to those entering facility without proper PPE. Maintains strict confidentiality related work information (in accordance with HIPPA) Cooperates and interacts with the interdisciplinary team members to escalate clinical questions and concerns of patients, visitors, vendors, and employees. Assists with escorting patients to their appointment/procedure if necessary Have the ability to efficiently and effectively respond to information request and ability to multi-task. Round in the units as needed, specifically targeting new admissions, greeting patients and family members and documenting interaction in iRound tool; As a member of the health care team, be visible, engaging and acts as a liaison for patients/families as needed and escalate any issues or concerns to the patient relations department; Perform other duties as assigned. To qualify you must have a REQUIREMENTS: Bachelor Degree and 2 years of customer service experience especially as it relates to clear empathic communication and the ability to quickly & effectively triage escalations Attention to detail organization and ability to navigate potentially stressful situations Must be self motivated and able to operate independently NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. If you wish to view NYU Langone Hospital- Brooklyn’s EEO policies, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $47,308.39 – $50,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 100228-370 Virtual Interview Day – Sleep Technologist Job ID: 100228-370 We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Sleep Technologist. Performs other duties as assigned. Gather and Analyze Patient Information – Review history, physical information, medications, procedure request, and study protocol. Complete and verify documentation. Explain the procedure and orient the patient to the sleep center. Testing Preparation Procedures – Prepare and calibrate equipment required for testing to determine proper functioning and make adjustments, if necessary. Apply electrodes and sensors according to accepted published standards. Perform appropriate physiologic calibrations to ensure proper signals and make adjustments, if necessary. Perform routine positive airway pressure (PAP) mask fitting. Polysomnographic Procedures – Follow procedural protocols [such as Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT), Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT), parasomnia studies, PAP and oxygen titration, etc.] to ensure collection of appropriate data. Follow lights out procedures to establish and document baseline values (such as body position, oxyhemoglobin saturation, respiratory and heart rates, etc.). Perform polysomnographic data acquisition while monitoring study-tracing quality to ensure signals are artifact-free and make adjustments, if necessary. Polysomnographic Procedures – Document routine observations, including sleep stages and clinical events, changes in procedure, and other significant events in order to facilitate scoring and interpretation of polysomnographic results. Implement appropriate interventions (including actions necessary for patient safety and therapeutic intervention such as continuous and bi-level positive airway pressure, oxygen administration, etc.). Polysomnographic Procedures – Follow lights on procedures to verify integrity of collected data and complete the data collection process (e.g. repeats the physiological and instrument calibrations and instructs the patient on completing questionnaires, etc.). Demonstrate the knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and provide age specific care in the treatment, assessment, and education of neonatal, pediatric, adolescent, adult, and geriatric patients. Polysomnographic Record Scoring – Assist with scoring sleep/wake stages by applying professionally accepted guidelines. Assist with scoring clinical events (such as respiratory events, cardiac events, limb movements, arousals, etc.) with center specific protocols. Assist with the generation of accurate reports by tabulating sleep/wake and clinical event data. Service Management and Professional Issues – Comply with applicable laws, regulations, guidelines and standards regarding safety and infection control issues. Perform routine equipment care and maintenance and inventory evaluation. Maintain current CPR or BCLS certification. Demonstrate effective written and spoken communication skills. Demonstrate appropriate social skills. Demonstrate ability to follow direction. Respond to study participants procedural-related inquiries by providing appropriate information. Inspect and maintain sleep study related equipment and inventory. Explain the procedure and orient the patient for either in center or home sleep apnea testing. Perform patient education and instruction appropriate for home sleep apnea testing. To qualify you must have a NYS OP License and current registration as a Polysomnographic Technologist, OR, Registered Respiratory Therapist, OR Respiratory Therapy Technician competent to perform Polysomnographic Technology services. 2 years’ experience in Polysomnography or a related field. Successful completion of an accredited educational program leading to a certificate or associate degree with an emphasis in sleep technology OR Successful completion of a sleep technology program associated with a state licensed and/or a nationally accredited educational facility or equivalent experience and documented proficiency for all competencies required of a sleep technician. Certification by a nationally recognized certification board and holds either the Registered Sleep Technologist (RST), Registered Polysomnographic Technologist (RPSGT), or Sleep Disorders Specialist (SDS) credential. If you wish to view NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s EEO policies, please click here. Please click here to view the Federal “EEO is the law” poster or visit https://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/ofccpost.htm for more information. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $45 – $48 Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. So far shandy has created 2 blog entries. Staining Your Decking Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere. By 2024-04-02T15:57:03+00:00 January 28, 2021 Carpentry Decorating Electricity Maintenance Plumbing Services Uncategorized Comments Off on Staining Your Decking The Best Floating Shelves Curabitur non nulla sit amet nisl tempus convallis quis ac lectus mauris. 2021-01-28T11:54:55+00:00 on The Best Floating Shelves 2024-12-16T07:46:14+00:00 We Are Here to Help Your Career Our Internal Career Planning team is here to help you achieve your career goals. The team will guide you toward internal opportunities for discovery, advancement, and continuing success. Learn, Grow, and Achieve With Us We Have Plenty of Opportunities for You 2,495+ positions were filled by existing employees in 2023. 2135+ positions have been filled enterprise-wide by existing employees in 2024. 818+ employees attended Steps for Success events in 2023. 730+ employees have attended Steps for Success events in 2024. Steps for Success Program Keep Your Career Moving Forward The Steps for Success program is designed to help you, as a current employee, grow your career. By offering support through coaching, mentorship, workshops, and more, we’re dedicated to your development. Take the next step in your career with a team ready to advance with you. Take Your Next Step We’ll Be With You on Your Career Journey Discover how we can help you achieve your career goals. Learn Contact your Internal Career Planning Specialist to learn more about our: Career coaching & guidance Resume writing workshop Developing & advancing your career Changing your career direction Applying for a transfer Connect with a Career Planning Specialist Attend Steps for Success hosts recurring career planning events, such as virtual and in-person workshops and webinars. Register to attend an event today! See All Upcoming Events Check out current job opportunities on the SFS Career Portal. If interested, apply directly through the job posting. Login to the portal Select the Career Opportunities tab Click on Search Jobs Search Internal Jobs See Our Success Stories Jason A. Ranekka D. Gabby B. Gisella B. Himanshu T. Data Analyst NYU Langone Health offers an abundance of opportunities to grow and develop in a healthy work environment. I enjoyed using NYU Langone’s training courses in business to support my career progression, and I also utilized the Tuition assistance program to obtain a Master of Public Health. I’m proud of my work and what the organization represents to New York City and the surrounding communities. Oct 2017 Sr. Research Technician Nov 2019 Principal Research Technician June 2023 One of the many perks that come with working at NYU Langone Health is the abundant resources available to enhance one's abilities and grow your career. During my decades-long career at NYU Langone, I've had the opportunity to pursue my master's and Ph.D. degrees and have participated in numerous leadership courses offered. Every opportunity to make an impact has been a favorite moment since joining the NYU Langone Health team.  We are each a part of the whole and what you do matters, regardless of the role you play at this excellent organization. Senior Director - Infection Prevention & Control Nursing Professional  Development Specialist Your first role at NYU Langone Health is only the first step in your professional journey. NYU Langone offers many opportunities to learn and grow. In my case, the tuition assistance benefit helped me return to school for my graduate degree. I have achieved the professional accomplishments that I have because I started and maintained my career here. I now coordinate the same educational programs in my role that helped me get to where I am today. Jun 2017 Registered Nurse –  Student Extern Nov 2018 Staff Registered Nurse Feb 2022 Clinical Nurse Instructor Oct 2022 Nursing Professional Development Specialist All my life I wanted to serve my community and I am happy to know that I am part of a team that makes a difference in the lives of others. Working at NYU Langone Health has also allowed me to further my career and l've been able to use the tuition assistance benefit to pursue a master's degree in Nursing Administration. Assistant Director of  Patient Care Services Senior Accounts Payable Associate It has been such a privilege to be a part of NYU Langone Health. It's a place filled with hard work, cheerful coworkers, and supportive management.  My supervisor and manager motivated me to grow personally and professionally. The career development resources offered, such as professional development classes and programs, have greatly contributed to my growth. Apr 2021 Accounts Payable Associate 2024-12-16T07:44:25+00:00 Reach Your Full  Potential Here At NYU Langone, we believe in empowering our staff by offering a variety of career paths across multiple specialties. Whether you’re drawn to patient care, clinical research, administration, or support services, there are endless opportunities to grow and thrive within our organization. Explore Our Careers Advance Your Career With Us At NYU Langone, we have a variety of areas offering career growth opportunities where you can expand your skills and experience in a supportive and dynamic environment. Administrative and Temporary Support NYU Langone’s Administrative and Temporary Support professionals play a vital role throughout the organization. As essential team members, administrative support professionals help organize and coordinate everything from committee meetings and data analysis to interviews, payroll, and more. Explore Careers in Administrative and Temporary Support Growing your career in the Allied Health field at NYU Langone allows you to learn from a collaborative team of experts who pursue new ideas, innovate for the future, and deliver solutions that positively impact patient care. Explore Careers in Allied Health Clinical Support NYU Langone’s Clinical Support team works with our physicians and nurses to deliver the highest standard of care. Use your patient-centered skills to help us maintain this level of care, respecting the dignity of every individual we treat. Explore Careers in Clinical Support NYU Langone Faculty members make an essential contribution to our academic mission. Join us as we work to cultivate career opportunities for our physicians and scientists, recruit promising new faculty members, develop junior faculty, and attract a diverse pool of faculty talent across the organization. Explore Faculty Careers Information Technology  & Digital Our Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) team plays a pivotal role in NYU Langone’s strategic mission. Use your skills and experience to help us develop innovative solutions to support the highest quality of care and improve the entire organization’s digital experience. Explore Careers in Information Technology & Digital Leadership Professionals NYU Langone offers opportunities for leaders to learn, grow, and advance in various areas. Build your career in one of the country’s premier health systems surrounded by the best and brightest in academic administration, department administration, and hospital administration. Explore Leadership Careers Non-Clinical Professionals NYU Langone’s non-clinical professionals are essential to the efficient operation and delivery of services and play a crucial role in the smooth running of our organization. Help us continue to support our healthcare system’s ongoing expansion and success. Explore Non-Clinical Careers As a Magnet®-recognized organization, NYU Langone empowers nurses to deliver world-class and highest standards of care in a dynamic learning environment. Build a career where you have a voice and can participate in important initiatives to ensure that patients and their families are at the center of all we do. Explore Careers in Nursing Research is a top priority at NYU Langone. Our 16-story, state-of-the-art science building is home to scientists, researchers, and technicians from over 55 countries. Join them as they work together to make a real-world impact on patient outcomes. Explore Careers in Research As part of NYU Langone’s support services staff, you’ll experience different people and situations daily and work alongside colleagues from around the world. You’ll become a valued team member who works together to serve our patients and their families. Explore Careers in Support Services Today, more than ever, NYU Langone has a great story to tell. Hear from the people who come to work each day with pride, purpose, and passion. Listen to their career journey stories and how they work together to deliver the highest standard of care. Christopher P. Tatiana S. Terence H. Leeza P. Sangeetha S. Jim M. Lizette V. Tiffany M. Nurse Clinician Kimmel Pavilion Manhattan I first started my career as an Intern in Talent Acquisition.  I have now fulfilled my dream of becoming a Registered Nurse  at NYU Langone Health. NYU Langone has given me the opportunities to accomplish my career goals. July 2015 Intern in Nurse Recruitment/HR Aug 2021 Staff Nurse Senior Staff Nurse Feb 2024 Faculty Group Practice (FGP) Office Supervisor Since joining NYU Langone Health, my career progression has been remarkable. I took on different projects in collaboration with my team members, and that allowed me to expand my professional network, be exposed to new work processes, and develop new skills. I also recently got accepted to NYU Wagner's master's program for health administration and I hope to gain skills and knowledge that will enable me to move to a more advanced leadership role. I'm grateful for the opportunities NYU Langone offers to its staff. Aug 2015 FGP Assistant Nov 2015 FGP Sec | – Intake/Sched FGP Medical Secretary July 2023 FGP Office Supervisor Assistant Director - Budgets I wanted to build a career at NYU Langone Health because of the opportunity to learn and grow at one of the top healthcare organizations  in the world. There's a wealth of knowledge here. I've been able to chat  with senior leadership about professional development and career ambitions, and I was selected to participate in the Manager Leadership Program, which supported my development in my first year as a manager.  I also found the FOCUS learning offerings such as Leading With Empathy to be beneficial. I'm proud to work for a great organization with awesome leaders that I can learn from. March 2020 Manager – Finance Assistant Director – Budgets Assistant II Occupational Therapy After taking my son to several healthcare institutions for care, NYU Langone Health correctly diagnosed and ultimately treated his illness, which made me want to join this great institution. NYU Langone's unwavering dedication to making a real difference in patients' lives truly moved me and I couldn't help but feel a deep connection to its mission. Building my career here isn't just about professional growth; it's about being part of a passionate community that shares my values and aspirations. Jan 2021 Occupational Therapy Assistant Assistant I Occupational Therapy Dec 2023 Senior Research Coordinator The collaborative and supportive environment at NYU Langone Health has cultivated a sense of camaraderie that makes coming to work each day incredibly fulfilling. I am grateful for the mentorship provided by my esteemed faculty members, which has played a vital role in my professional development. NYU Langone has also provided me with incredible opportunities to learn and grow through their tuition assistance to pursue my Master of Public Health (MPH) at New York University and  in-house training curriculum. Jun 2019 Project Associate Sep 2021 Research Coordinator May 2023 Published On: January 28, 2021 1.6 min read get to know us Honesty, integrity & experience Vestibulum ac diam sit amet quam vehicula elementum sed sit amet dui. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Donec velit neque, auctor sit amet aliquam vel, ullamcorper sit amet ligula. Vivamus magna justo, lacinia eget consectetur sed, convallis at tellus. Donec sollicitudin molestie malesuada. Pellentesque in ipsum id orci porta dapibus. Sed porttitor lectus nibh. Donec rutrum congue leo eget malesuada. Vestibulum ac diam sit amet quam vehicula elementum sed sit amet dui. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Donec velit neque, auctor sit amet aliquam vel, ullamcorper sit amet ligula. Vivamus magna justo, lacinia eget consectetur sed, convallis at tellus. Donec sollicitudin molestie malesuada. Pellentesque in ipsum id orci porta dapibus. Sed porttitor lectus nibh. Donec rutrum congue leo eget malesuada. Nulla porttitor accumsan tincidunt. Pellentesque in ipsum id orci porta dapibus. Vestibulum ac diam sit amet quam vehicula elementum sed sit amet dui. Quisque velit nisi, pretium ut lacinia in, elementum id enim. Nulla porttitor accumsan tincidunt. Sed porttitor lectus nibh. Sed porttitor lectus nibh. Mauris blandit aliquet elit, eget tincidunt nibh pulvinar a. Praesent sapien massa, convallis a pellentesque nec, egestas non nisi. Sed porttitor lectus nibh. Vivamus magna justo, lacinia eget consectetur sed, convallis at tellus. Proin eget tortor risus. Vivamus magna justo, lacinia eget consectetur sed, convallis at tellus. Curabitur non nulla sit amet nisl tempus convallis quis ac lectus. Vivamus magna justo, lacinia eget consectetur sed, convallis at tellus. Proin eget tortor risus. Curabitur non nulla sit amet nisl tempus convallis quis ac lectus. Quisque velit nisi, pretium ut lacinia in, elementum id enim. continue reading Related Posts 1138022_RR00098851 Job ID: 1138022_RR00098851 Shift: Monday – Friday 9:00 am – 5:00 pm Department: Hospital Administration, NYU Grossman School of Medicine Research Administrative POD #4 (S2135) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Senior Grants Specialist. The Senior Grant Specialist provides a high level of pre and post award grant support within the Research Administration POD and is responsible for working with faculty to prepare and submit grant applications Provide pre award support to faculty across the department including completing all non scientific portions of grant applications Lead budget development nbsp; Gather required documents from collaborators and subcontractor organizations as needed Enter grant into Research Navigator and work with the department and Sponsored Programs Administration to ensure the grant is submitted by the funder due date Proactively communicate application process and deadlines to Principal Investigators Assist with gathering and compiling documents for Just In Time requests Submit advance accounts and advance continuation forms Assist with award setup including re budgeting gathering revised subcontract material reviewing notice of award with PI Program Manager and Finance analyst providing salary allocation information to outside divisions/sections/departments setting up consulting agreements with Contracts ensuring subawards are executed Work with PIs to prepare and submit RPPRs in eRA commons and Research Navigator including budgeting and gathering subcontract materials Prepare and submit Research Navigator records and continuation records for non federal grants and No Cost Extensions Provide support with post award including prior approvals re budgets subcontract follow up and carryover requests Assist in maintaining biosketches and other support Serve as a resource to the research community related to sponsor requirements as well as institutional and departmental grants policy Provide peer mentorship to new grant specialists Provide trainings to new team members as needed Perform other duties as assigned nbsp; Bachelors degree in Business Health Administration or a related discipline and a minimum of three to five years relevant combination of education and experience; Experience working in a team oriented environment with ability to take initiative and work independently; Proven ability to meet deadlines and produce high quality products; Related experience in an academic research administration environment strongly preferred Thorough knowledge of pre and post award grants administration; Understands federal state and local policies governing sponsored research; Basic knowledge of accounting budgeting and finance Excellent verbal and written communication skills ability to support and work with a diverse group of faculty and staff and interpersonal and problem solving skills required; Ability to implement and interpret policies and procedures and communicate sensitive information verbally and in writing to a diverse population; Ability to assess situations and provide solutions to mitigate problems or issues during grants submission process; Demonstrated ability to work independently To qualify you must have a Minimum Qualifications:Bachelor s degree; minimum of 2 years relevant experience in a research or an academicenvironment Must include experience with scientific grants preparation Position also requires knowledge and skills in the following areas: Knowledge of grant funding policies and procedures and applicable local state federal and School regulations Ability to communicate effectively both verbally and in writing Knowledge of restricted fund accounting principles procedures and standards Skill in the use of personal computers and software applications including database management skills Knowledge of federal state and/or community funding sources and mechanisms Ability to analyze and interpret financial data and prepare financial reports statements and/or projections Ability to provide technical advice and information to staff Knowledge of current developments/trends in grant proposals NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $67,771.14 – $92,750 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Program Coordinator - MedTech Venture Prototyping (MVP) Fund 2024-12-20T22:12:51+00:00 Inclusion Is Essential  to Our Success Inclusion is central to our mission to care, teach, and discover. We celebrate how diverse identities, communities, and roles make us a world-class patient care, education, and research institution. Our Inclusion Mission We Excel Through the Excellence of Each Other We intentionally foster a learning and work environment of inclusivity, belonging, and respect for all by relying on our four pillars: Optimizing organizational culture Promoting inclusive community Increasing equity and inclusion capacity Developing and implementing equity-related knowledge Kimberley C. Ariana C. Jessica G. Timotheus K. NYU Langone provides limitless professional experience. I am not boxed in by my job title and am offered numerous hands-on opportunities that expose me to various aspects of hospital operations. The community that NYU Langone serves is as diverse as the community of employees that work here, and it feels great to know that such a big part of my identity is nurtured, valued, and respected. Administrative Support Supervisor I was instantly attracted to the culture at NYU Langone Health. I love the fast-paced environment and how there are so many opportunities for career growth. We are constantly expanding, which helps me learn new things and meet new and interesting people with diverse backgrounds. Associate Director, FGP Professional Billing Operations I wanted to become a medical assistant because I fell in love with the medical field and wanted to be a closer part of patient care. During the NYU Langone Health Medical Assistant Program, my favorite experience was doing an externship with my colleagues at Huntington Medical Group. I felt like I was learning from the best, and I appreciated the time spent helping me understand the job. Plus, with good company, it's easy to make the job even more enjoyable! Medical Assistant Refrigeration Engineer After getting a campus tour of NYU Langone Health on my first day, I was in awe. I had never seen anything like it. Were all a part of the same big system and have a role to play, no matter how behind the scenes it might be. We're all here to help save lives and work together for the greater good. The camaraderie shown among the team made me sure that this was where I wanted to learn and grow. Jul 2021 Recruitment Practices Everyone Is Welcome At NYU Langone, we are committed to increasing diversity recruitment and retention at every level. To ensure we have the right skills to achieve our diversity recruitment aims, we require all new Talent Acquisition staff to complete the following SHRM programs: Employing Abilities at Work Certificate and Veterans at Work Certificate. We also have a diversity talent pipeline that is concerned with how Human Resources can strategically influence the hiring and development of underrepresented groups at managerial/leadership levels. In addition, we regularly attend Diversity job fairs and events both in-person and virtually. Our Positive Culture and Work Environment We have a B.READI approach to culture. This positive employee experience requires that we B.READI (Belonging, Respect, Equity, Accessibility, Diversity and Inclusion) to: Have a positive work and learning environment Interact civilly and respectfully with each other, respecting each other’s identities, roles, experiences, and contribution Have leaders who build a culture that motivates team members Have clinicians care for patients in ways that advance health equity and patient satisfaction Employee Resource Groups Together, We Can Learn and Grow Our employees have access to a robust offering of inclusion resources, including training webinars, articles, videos, and our growing number of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). ERGs enable our staff members to connect with those who have similar interests, backgrounds, experiences, or needs. They are another powerful way that NYU Langone helps foster a culture where differences are valued, celebrated, and supported. NYU Langone’s ERGs include: Transgender Affinity Group Veterans Resource Group Black Leaders Employee Resource Group Asian American Native Hawaiian Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Employee Resource Group Hispanic/Latine Resource Group Women in Leadership – Hospital Operations Chapter Working Mothers Employee Resource Group 50+ Employee Resource Group Neurodiversity Employee Resource Group Caring for Aging Adults Dads Working for Healthier Communities (DWFHC) Disability Strong Partnerships Expanding Our Diversity Recruitment Reach We have expanded and enhanced our diversity recruitment efforts by partnering with local and national organizations that work with underserved groups, cater to the needs of specific groups, or work with students preparing for the workforce. Our partnerships include working with the Rusk Rehabilitation Vocational Rehab Center, The Grace Institute, the YWCA Lead Program in Brooklyn, and the Chinatown Manpower Project. These organizations understand the importance of workforce diversity and have helped us attract talent from untapped areas. We also post jobs on HBCU Connect, the largest network of students and alumni from Historically Black Colleges & Universities, and regularly work with the HBCU Awareness project. Our Awards Reflect a Commitment to Inclusion at Every Level 2024-12-31T00:03:04+00:00 Vizient, Inc., has ranked NYU Langone the No. 1 comprehensive academic medical center in the country for three years in a row. This achievement reflects the skill of our faculty and staff and our collective commitment to excellence. Our Facilities World-Class Care Wherever It’s Needed NYU Langone provides world-class, patient-centered care at its 320+ locations throughout the New York area and in Florida, including six inpatient locations, a children’s hospital, and four emergency rooms. Also, part of NYU Langone is the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center, a National Cancer Institute-designated comprehensive cancer center, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, and NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. Our Health System We take great pride in all that our exceptional faculty and staff have achieved for the benefit of our patients, our students, and the world beyond. NYU Langone’s hospital network includes the following facilities where you can grow your career in an environment where world-class, patient-centered care is delivered daily. Search for jobs at our hospitals … NYU Langone Hospital–Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island Affiliates Woodhull Medical Center Bellevue Hospital and Gouverneur Health VA NY Harbor Healthcare System Read More About Our Hospitals Read Less About Our Hospitals Located along Manhattan’s East River, NYU Grossman School of Medicine is situated along an 11-block “biomedical corridor” dedicated to the advancement of scientific discovery. Our work is guided by the promise of translational medicine and by physician-scientists who provide the intellectual foundation for highly collaborative, multidisciplinary investigations. As home to Nobel Prize winners and… Located along Manhattan’s East River, NYU Grossman School of Medicine is situated along an 11-block “biomedical corridor” dedicated to the advancement of scientific discovery. Our work is guided by the promise of translational medicine and by physician-scientists who provide the intellectual foundation for highly collaborative, multidisciplinary investigations. As home to Nobel Prize winners and world-renowned researchers, we have created an innovative environment worthy of the next generation of scholars and teachers with established national and international reputations. View Career Opportunities at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Read More About NYU Grossman School of Medicine Read Less About NYU Grossman School of Medicine We educate and train medical students, residents, and fellows to become exemplary physicians and visionary leaders who deliver comprehensive and equitable health care. Through innovative medical education, exceptional clinical training and integrating basic and translational scholarship with clinical, population health and health services research… We educate and train medical students, residents, and fellows to become exemplary physicians and visionary leaders who deliver comprehensive and equitable health care. Through innovative medical education, exceptional clinical training and integrating basic and translational scholarship with clinical, population health and health services research, we seek to address the primary care physician workforce shortage and prepare our medical students and graduate trainees to deliver highly-skilled, value-based, patient-centered healthcare. Learn more about NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Read More About NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Read Less About NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital proudly attends to the needs of patients of all ages with any type of musculoskeletal condition. Working at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital provides all the learning opportunities you expect from a world-class teaching hospital. You’ll also enjoy a close-knit, supportive work environment that welcomes and rewards employees who help to continually enhance our reputation for… NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital proudly attends to the needs of patients of all ages with any type of musculoskeletal condition. Working at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital provides all the learning opportunities you expect from a world-class teaching hospital. You’ll also enjoy a close-knit, supportive work environment that welcomes and rewards employees who help to continually enhance our reputation for care, compassion, and customer service. View Career Opportunities at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Read More About NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Read Less About NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn was founded in 1883 to provide quality care to our neighbors. Today, we remain steadfast to this principle throughout our integrated healthcare network. Working at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn allows you to stretch yourself professionally in a teaching hospital environment. Our location offers a full-service, 450-bed teaching hospital… NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn was founded in 1883 to provide quality care to our neighbors. Today, we remain steadfast to this principle throughout our integrated healthcare network. Working at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn allows you to stretch yourself professionally in a teaching hospital environment. Our location offers a full-service, 450-bed teaching hospital and a complete range of services, including one of the busiest Emergency Departments and Level I Trauma Centers in Brooklyn. Careers are available for those ready to provide quality care to our neighbors and patients. View Career Opportunities at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Read More About NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Read Less About NYU Langone Hospital–Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island offers exceptional care in nearly every specialty and subspecialty of medicine and surgery. Growing your career here allows you to work alongside world-class professionals as you learn new skills in a pioneering hospital setting. We strive to do and be our best every day, a commitment made possible by the unwavering dedication of our talented team members, who take enormous pride in the amazing work they do… NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island offers exceptional care in nearly every specialty and subspecialty of medicine and surgery. Growing your career here allows you to work alongside world-class professionals as you learn new skills in a pioneering hospital setting. We strive to do and be our best every day, a commitment made possible by the unwavering dedication of our talented team members, who take enormous pride in the amazing work they do. View Career Opportunities at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Read More About NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Read Less About NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide high-quality, affordable outpatient primary healthcare and support services to over 100,000 patients annually. As one of the largest Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) networks in the nation and NCQA-designated Patient-Centered Medical Home, the health centers deliver quality care… The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide high-quality, affordable outpatient primary healthcare and support services to over 100,000 patients annually. As one of the largest Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) networks in the nation and NCQA-designated Patient-Centered Medical Home, the health centers deliver quality care to those who need it most. View Career Opportunities at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Read More About Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Read Less About Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Faculty Group Practice, Ambulatory Locations, and Cancer Center With over 300+ locations, we’re dedicated to providing world-class care in the neighborhoods where our patients live and work. We maintain exceptional outpatient facilities throughout the NYC metro area, all five boroughs, and communities in the Hudson Valley. These facilities include the Perlmutter Cancer Center, which provides state-of-the-art, research-based approaches for all types of cancer and has an expansive portfolio… With over 300+ locations, we’re dedicated to providing world-class care in the neighborhoods where our patients live and work. We maintain exceptional outpatient facilities throughout the NYC metro area, all five boroughs, and communities in the Hudson Valley. These facilities include the Perlmutter Cancer Center, which provides state-of-the-art, research-based approaches for all types of cancer and has an expansive portfolio of clinical trials to ensure patients receive the most advanced care possible. Search for jobs at any of these locations: Ambulatory Care Center Read More About These Locations Read Less About These Locations Our Patient Access Center and Billing Office in Boynton Beach, Florida offers long-term career growth and development opportunities. We serve as a remote and centralized access point supporting NYU Langone’s physician practices with appointment scheduling, billing, financial clearance, customer service, physician referrals, prescription refill requests… Our Patient Access Center and Billing Office in Boynton Beach, Florida offers long-term career growth and development opportunities. We serve as a remote and centralized access point supporting NYU Langone’s physician practices with appointment scheduling, billing, financial clearance, customer service, physician referrals, prescription refill requests and more. View Career Opportunities at NYU Langone Health in Florida Read More About NYU Langone Health in Florida Read Less About NYU Langone Health in Florida NYU Langone Health in Nevada NYU Langone has a Patient Access Center and Business Office in Las Vegas, Nevada. This office supports our expanding Faculty Group Practice network. As we grow, we’re excited to offer you opportunities that will also help your career grow. We are looking to serve as a remote and centralized point of access supporting NYU Langone’s physician practices for appointment scheduling, billing, financial clearance… NYU Langone has a Patient Access Center and Business Office in Las Vegas, Nevada. This office supports our expanding Faculty Group Practice network. As we grow, we’re excited to offer you opportunities that will also help your career grow. We are looking to serve as a remote and centralized point of access supporting NYU Langone’s physician practices for appointment scheduling, billing, financial clearance, customer service, physician referrals, prescription refill requests  and more. View Career Opportunities at NYU Langone Health in Nevada Read More About NYU Langone Health in Nevada Read Less About NYU Langone Health in Nevada Christopher G. Edissa L. Verginia A. Diana W. Victor R. My motivation to build a career at NYU Langone Health comes from my parents. My mother was employed with NYU Langone as a nurse, and my father spent 15 years working as a building service supervisor. They worked at NYU Langone to improve the lives of all who entered its doors, and they helped grow the institution to what it is today. I want to have the same impact, commitment, and dedication to NYU Langone’s future growth. Technical Manager Radiology Senior Manager – Clinical Supply Chain Management NYU Langone Health’s core values and dedication to their employees motivated me to build a career here. NYU Langone is big on empowering its employees and providing many resources and tools for their success. For example, using the tuition assistance program, I’m working on my bachelor’s degree in health management. You can build a career here, and everyone will lend a hand. May 2015 Office Coordinator June 2016 Clinical Supply Chain Specialist Dec 2016 Clinical Supply Chain Associate Apr 2018 Clinical Supply Chain Coordinator Sept 2022 Tissue Compliance Specialist – Clinical Supply Chain Management Jan 2024 I enjoy my role because it allows me to be everywhere within a practice, including overseeing front-end patient flow, to ensure patients are roomed in a timely manner. Some of my core memories since joining NYU Langone Health has been with the FGP patient experience and training teams.  They really know how to keep you engaged and embody the values of the organization. NYU Langone also offers various opportunities to help grow our skillsets, such as learning courses, and this has helped me get to where I am today. Faculty Group Practice (FGP) Administrative Operations Lead I am motivated to build my career at NYU Langone because the nursing staff and leaders support my growth.  I have participated in nursing councils, collaborated on quality improvement projects, and have had the opportunity to present in educational forums. I have also been recognized for my contributions and encouraged to pursue a master's degree. In the same way, I wish to inspire others to pursue lifelong learning opportunities so that they too can make a difference in patient care. In my role, I encourage nurses to grow professionally by supporting them every step of the way. Manager, Security I have a passion for public service, and healthcare security allows me to utilize my training and experience. NYU Langone Health has provided support, resources, and opportunities to advance. My current role allows me the opportunity to provide excellent customer service, educate staff on security-related topics, provide support during difficult situations and represent the department in a positive manner. This is an organization that will encourage you and wants to see you succeed. Aug 2016 Security Officer II Mar 2019 Supervisor, Security May 2022 2024-12-17T14:07:52+00:00 Use the filters below to start a new search and find additional jobs. Your Saved Jobs There are no jobs in your cart! 2025-01-06T19:11:27+00:00 Find Out About Your Next Big  Career Opportunity Discover how we’re creating exciting opportunities for you to join our team and make an impact! Check out our upcoming recruitment events below and be sure to connect with our virtual NYU Langone Assistant to learn more! Tammy A. Joseph C. Jodi H. Samuel W. I was a Student Nurse Extern during my last year in nursing school and I was in awe of how well everyone worked together, and how much they truly cared about their patients. I knew I wanted to be a part of this amazing team, and I am still here 32 years later. In that time, I have utilized tuition assistance to obtain a Masters in Nursing Administration and used available opportunities to enrich my leadership skills and explore new avenues in my career. Nurse Manager - Surgical/Cardiac Service Administration It’s an especially exciting time to be at NYU Langone, partly because it feels like we’re standing on the edge of tomorrow. I want all patients, families, and employees to feel that too - that a small level of science fiction just became science fact, and is accessible to them. There’s a reason we have the reputation we do. We continue to be successful because our team is always willing to try and work hard. Our new Kimmel Pavilion exemplifies that hard work. Supervisor, Guest Services and Patient Relations I’m excited about everything related to Kimmel Pavilion - the space, the private rooms, the state-of-the-art equipment, and what this ultimately means for our patients and team. Our employees provide the highest care, and now they’re even better equipped to do so. We want our patients and families to feel safe, comfortable, and engaged. This brand new facility will have the most advanced technology, which gives our team a greater peace of mind, knowing we can provide that experience for our patients. Program Manager - Physical Therapy What I like most about my job is that it’s never boring. What brings the excitement are the healthcare advancements that we use in surgery, like robotics. Procedures are innovative and challenging, allowing us to learn new technologies and methods to optimize patient outcomes. In the OR, I also act as an advocate for patient safety. We all have a role to play when it comes to safety in the workplace as a whole. Everyone here genuinely cares about one another’s well being. Registered Nurse, Operating Room NYU Langone Hospital — Brooklyn 2024-12-16T10:38:26+00:00 Grow Your Career Where Excellence Thrives NYU Langone Health is a world-class medical institution with Magnet®-recognized status by the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC). Advance your career supported by exceptional faculty and staff. Skip Page Contents Navigation Explore Why You Should Work With Us Page Contents: Our Mission and Values Career Development Recognition Programs Graduates, Interns, & Admin Fellows Veterans Our Mission, Culture, and Values We Work Each Day With Pride and Purpose Our trifold mission to care, teach, and discover is achieved daily through NYU Langone’s diverse and inclusive culture, which is devoted to excellence across the organization. We reflect our culture and values in the way we work, delivering care that is patient-centered and maintains the highest standards of excellence. We are collaborative, respectful of individual dignity, and focused on the improvement of individual and system outcomes through safe and ethical practices. We Value Performance Respect Integrity Diversity Excellence We focus on our aspirations and achievements and deliver on our commitments. We collaborate, communicate, share, listen, and recognize each other's contributions. We foster a culture of the highest ethical standards, trust, and honesty. We embrace cultural diversity, inclusion, individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. We are passionate about world-class patient care, education, and research. Back to Page Contents Benefits for the Life You Lead At NYU Langone, we are committed to supporting our diverse workforce and their loved ones with a comprehensive benefits and wellness package. Our benefits program is flexible and adapts to the ever-changing needs of our employees, whether it’s developing your career, starting a family, or saving for retirement. That’s why NYU Langone Health employees can choose the plans that best fit their stage of life, family situation, and more. Non-Union, Part-Time Employees Non-Union, Full-Time Employees Temp/Casual Employees Union Employees Award-Winning Benefits for Everybody Must work at least 17.5 hours/week Medical Dental Prescription Vision Commuter Benefit Program Wellness (including Wellbeats wellness platform, WeightWatchers, Student Loan Forgiveness Resources, and Counseling Support) Family Care Benefits (including Emergency Back-up Care, Child Care Center Options, College Planning Resources) Family Building Benefits (Adoption Assistance*, Surrogacy Assistance*, and Fertility Benefits) Voluntary Benefits (including Critical Illness, Accident Insurance, Hospital Indemnity, Permanent Life Insurance, Pet Insurance) Life Insurance Short-Term Disability – Available to all employees except Faculty 403(b) Retirement Savings Plan – Employer contributions upon meeting a one-year waiting period. Employees can make voluntary contributions on a pretax and/or after-tax ROTH basis upon hire to the IRS limit for the year. Long-Term Disability Retiree Medical Accounts Flexible Spending Account Legal Assistance Plan Employee Assistance Program Employee Recognition Programs Time off Benefits (including Sick Days, Vacation Days, and Cultural Heritage Day/Holidays) Educational Discounts (including tuition discounts at certain schools and book discounts) Cell Phone Provider Discounts Gym Membership Discounts Entertainment and Retail Discounts through Plum Benefits Workers’ Compensation Non-Union Employee Benefits for Full-time Employees Full-time, non-union employees regularly scheduled to work 35 hours or more per week receive all the benefits of Non-Union, Part-Time Employees as well as the following: Tuition Benefits NYU Langone Paid Family Leave Bank Family Building Benefits (Adoption Assistance and Surrogacy Assistance) Temp/Casual Employee Benefits Wellness Programs (including Wellbeats wellness platform and Counseling Support) 403 (b) Retirement Plan (Employees can make voluntary contributions on a pretax and/or after-tax Roth basis upon hire up to the IRS limit for the year) Short-Term Disability Union Employee Benefits Some of the unions that represent employees at NYU Langone include: “Local 1199” SEIU United Healthcare Workers East, Local 1 Security Officers Union, “Local 810” International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Doctors Council SEIU, “Local 32” BJ SEIU, The Brotherhood of Security Personnel, Officers and Guards International Union (2313 7th Avenue, New York, NY 10003; Phone: (212) 281-2000), Federation of Nurses/UFT, American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO, Community and Social Agency Employees Union, District Council 1705, AFSCME, AFL-CIO, (“Local 205”), and The Council of School Supervisors and Administrators (“CSA”). Employees in positions that are represented by a union should consult with their specific collective bargaining agreement regarding benefits eligibility. Below are the benefits that are offered through NYU Langone: Wellness (including Wellbeats wellness platform, WeightWatchers, Student Loan Forgiveness Resources and Counseling Support) Voluntary Benefits (Critical Illness, Accident Insurance, Hospital Indemnity, Permanent Life Insurance, Pet Insurance) Commuter Benefits 403 (b) Retirement Plans -Employees can make voluntary contributions on a pretax and/or after-tax Roth basis upon hire up to the IRS limit for the year. Time off Benefits (including Sick Days, Vacation Days and Holidays) Employee Recognition Program Award-Winning Your Health + Well-Being at NYU Langone is the award-winning employee wellness program that provides a range of offerings to support our employees and their loved ones. The program represents multiple aspects of health, such as mental, physical, nutritional, sleep, financial, social, and preventive care, so there are supportive resources for everyone. We Invest in Your Career Success At NYU Langone, we create customized training and development programs so you can meet your goals and reach your full potential at every stage of your career. New Beginnings Orientation Programs Our New Beginnings orientation programs provide employees and managers with the information and resources they need to transition into their new roles, familiarize themselves with our academic medical center, and help them assimilate into the organization. Learning Courses and Resources We offer in-person and online learning courses and resources to help professionals enhance their critical skills and leadership capabilities. Our team provides recommendations, support, and tailored programs to ensure professional development at all levels. Leadership Development We give leaders the tools to advance, grow and lead high-performing teams. Focusing on achieving career goals, we offer resources such as building workforce relationships, adapting to changing environments, and leveraging strengths to achieve goals. Career Development Resources Our career development resources include roadmaps to grow essential competencies and skills based on employees’ desired career paths. Our Steps for Success program helps employees advance their careers by offering one-on-one coaching, workshops, and more. Career Options We offer programs to advance career progression. From educational offerings, like certificate, diploma and degree-level programs, to self-guided resources, employees can develop new skills and engage in hands-on learning experiences to advance their careers. Recognition Programs & Events We Value, Celebrate, and Support Our Employees At NYU Langone, we believe our employees are the cornerstone of our achievements and should be celebrated and appreciated for their exceptional work and commitment to providing the quality patient-centered care we deliver every day. Recognition Platform Appreciation Events & Experiences Milestone Program Employee Appreciation Our Employee Recognition Platform is a place for colleagues to openly  express their admiration for each other's hard work, unwavering commitment, and exceptional accomplishments. It’s just one of the many ways we foster a culture of appreciation at NYU Langone. We recognize that our employees' well-being extends beyond the workplace and includes their families. Our curated outings and events, from exclusive employee gatherings to family-friendly outings and experiences, provide opportunities for cherished moments beyond the office. Whether bonding with cross-functional colleagues or creating lasting memories with loved ones, we strive to cultivate a supportive community both in and out of the workplace. From their fifth to their fiftieth, our Milestone Program pays tribute to  our long-tenured employees and celebrates their years of service and dedication to our organization. To recognize our employees for their work, we celebrate Employee Appreciation Day each calendar year with an organizational-wide campaign designed to thank them for all they do. Begin Your Career Learning  From the Best We’re excited that you want to grow your career at NYU Langone. Here, you will learn from the best as you work alongside colleagues who are leaders in their fields and have skills and knowledge they are happy to share. New Graduates Interns Administrative Fellows AmeriCorps Nursing Residency As a Magnet®-recognized hospital, re-designated for the fifth time in 2024, NYU Langone is among the nation’s leaders in shaping the future of nursing. There are few better places to begin your career than here with us. The Nurse Residency Program at NYU Langone follows the Vizient/AACN curriculum and is accredited by the CCNE (Commission for Collegiate Nursing Education). The one-year program is designed to promote professional practice by building specific competencies, critical thinking skills, and leadership abilities through educational activities during the first year of practice. All new graduate baccalaureate-prepared nurses participate in the program. After being oriented to their specific clinical unit, they participate in professional development and clinical seminars while receiving support and mentorship to promote organizational engagement. Master of Science in Clinical Research Clinical Research is a component of healthcare science that focuses on the safety and efficacy of medications, diagnostics, and medical treatments. With over 900 clinical trials currently being conducted at NYU Langone, there is no better time to further your career in clinical research. A 30-credit Master of Science in Clinical Research is offered through the NYU College of Dentistry. This unique program provides training in clinical research methodology, epidemiology and biostatistics, ethical and regulatory principles, and evidence-based healthcare. Please refer to our MS in Clinical Research page for program details. Whether you wish to pursue a position in direct patient care or another area such as management, information technology, research, or other disciplines, NYU Langone can offer several internship opportunities to support your career goals. Interns for Credit Program Our current intern partnerships include St John’s University, Rutgers University, SUNY Downstate, and UNC Charlotte. To participate in our Interns for Credit Program, students must: Be eligible to earn college credit Have an internship partnership program established and approved by both their school and NYU Langone Work a minimum number of hours that will vary based on NYU Langone department and school program requirements Have excellent communication, interpersonal, and organizational skills Possess PC proficiency and other skills dependent upon the department Health Career Opportunity Program This program consists of three, four-week internships that provide students with hands-on clinical experience and exposure to a variety of healthcare professions such as Rehabilitation Therapy, Radiology, Advanced Practice, Pharmacy, Clinical Nutrition and Food Services, Nursing, and other vital roles within the health system. Learn More About This Internship Student Interns The student intern must be a full-time student or, if working in the summer months (mid-May through mid-September), must be planning to return to full-time status in the fall. During non-summer months, the student intern can work a maximum of 17 hours per week. Student Research Interns The student intern must be a full-time student or, if working in the summer months (mid-May through mid-September), must be planning to return to full-time status in the fall. Functions performed must be related to their professional course of study or specialty field. Vocational Trainees NYU Langone’s Rusk Vocational Rehabilitation department helps individuals with disabilities find employment in the competitive marketplace through innovative programs and services. Through  this training program, individuals can gain valuable work experience and develop job-related skills  and competencies. Learn More About Vocational Rehabilitation Services Non-Traditional Volunteers Child and Adolescent Mental Health Studies (CAMS) NYU Langone Health’s Department of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry has exciting internship opportunities. Internships are available for undergraduates from any NYU school or college in NYU Langone’s Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry as part of a minor in child and adolescent mental health studies (CAMS). Learn More About Child and Adolescent Mental Health Studies (CAMS) Administrative Fellowship NYU Langone is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers, with a mission to serve, teach, and discover through excellence in patient care, education, and research. To ensure the continuation of exceptional administrative service and practices that support those contributions, NYU Langone has a dedicated Administrative Fellowship Program. Further information regarding NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship program can be found below. Any additional questions can be directed to adminfellow@nyulangone.org. NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship Program has been in place since 1988. It has expanded to include fellowship positions at the following NYU Langone hospitals in the system: The Tisch/Kimmel Hospital, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. Program Structure NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship is a one- or two-year, full-time, salaried program. The Fellowship offers on-the-job training in the skills and responsibilities required of a hospital administrator in a major academic medical center. As a Fellow, you will be placed at the center of NYU Langone’s hospital operations and work alongside the institution’s leaders and innovators. A feature that distinguishes our program is that Fellows can tailor and define their experiences through the variety of projects that they work on during their time with NYU Langone. As part of this program, you will learn by assuming increasing levels of responsibility and become involved with a broad range of operational issues, personnel, and processes while being precepted by senior-level administrators. The Administrative Fellowship is project-based in nature. Activities may include but are not limited to: Administrator on-call duties Compliance and regulatory assessment Financial decisions and budget review Operational processes and workflow analysis Policy evaluation and procedure development Program design and implementation Project management Data analysis and outcomes monitoring During the first months of the Fellowship, Fellows will meet with their respective campus leaders and the Health System’s Senior Leadership to become oriented to hospital operations as well as the function and structure of the organization. Fellows then become fully immersed; they can seek out projects in personal areas of interest. Examples of recent projects include: Developing business plans and coordinating the opening of new outpatient facilities Optimizing efficiencies in the emergency department Reducing hospital-acquired conditions across patient care units Coordinating change management initiatives within ancillary and support services Implementing High-Reliability processes in patient care units Developing staffing models for clinical units and departments Application Process/Requirements The application deadline for the 2025-2026 Administrative Fellowship will be in Fall 2024. Applicants are required to graduate from an accredited healthcare management program (MHA, MHSA, MPH, MPA, or MBA program with a focus on healthcare administration) by the beginning of the fellowship in July 2025. All applications should be submitted electronically through the National Administrative Fellowship Centralized Application Service (NAFCAS). Applications will be available at the beginning of June 2024 at the following link: nafcas.liaisoncas.com. Any applications submitted after the NAFCAS deadline will not be considered. NYU Langone does not sponsor work visas for administrative fellowship positions. Application Requirements include the following: Required application portfolio materials include: Current Resume Official Graduate School Transcript (Visit the “Academic History” quadrant to submit colleges attended and to download the Transcript Request Form for your registrar’s office. Transcripts should be sent directly from your registrar’s office to NAFCAS.) Three (3) Letters of Recommendation (to be requested in the “Supporting Information” quadrant): (1) Academic, (1) Professional, and (1) Other (academic, professional, or letter from your program director) Two essays (maximum 300 words each) Finalists will be invited to interview with senior leadership. NYU Langone is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. Current Fellows Sophia Silverman (2023-Present) Graduate School: University of Michigan Hometown: Royal Oak, Michigan Jasmine Bar (2023-Present) Graduate School: New York University Hometown: Briarcliff, NY Helen Zhuo (2023-Present) Graduate School: Yale University Hometown: Queens, NY Eyob Teklesenbet (2024-Present) Graduate School: University of Missouri Hometown: Columbia, MO Ezra Affoumado (2024-Present) Hometown: San Francisco, CA Former Fellows Administrative Fellow Graduate School Term Current Position at NYUL Isabella Harnick Cornell University 2022-2024 Operations Manager, Hospital Operations, Women and Children’s Services T. Nash Georgetown University Project Manager, Beyond Bridges Julia Stockman University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 2022-2023 N/A Ivy Xiang Jonathan Novak University of Texas Health Science Center Business Manager, Perioperative Services Julie Livingstone Project Manager, Hospital Operations & Analytics Garrett Romines University of Missouri 2022-2022 Business Manager, Ambulatory Care Services Anjana Speedhar Project Manager, Perlmutter Cancer Center Lynn Nguyen Maira Undavalli University of Pittsburgh Tiffany Kang John Amory 2018-2020 Manager, Hospital Operations Emilee Warner 2019-2020 Beining Niu Marissa Wiegner Tulane University Assistant Director, Emergency Services – Cobble Hill Delvene Gill 2018-2019 Andrew Munfakh University of Michigan 2017-2018 Director, Comprehensive Transfer Center and Patient Flow Operations Annette Rabinovich 2016-2018 Kara Dimon For more information about NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship Program and to learn about current and former members, please email us at AmeriCorps at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone AmeriCorps is a federal program for individuals who commit their time and skills to helping people and communities around America. Through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s partnership with the program, we can offer full-time, short-term volunteer assignments to individuals interested in providing support to their community while earning a living stipend now and scholarship money for the future. During this assignment, you can earn valuable experience with a world-renowned healthcare organization while helping people in your neighborhood. The organizational and problem-solving skills you’ll develop during this experience will help you in any career path you choose. How to Apply To learn more about the opportunities available and how you can benefit from being part of this program, connect with us today. Please send your resume/letter of interest to americorps@nyulangone.org Applicants must be at least 18 years of age and a US citizen or permanent resident. Read more information about the Check & Connect Mentor position. We Are Committed to Supporting Those Who Served At NYU Langone, we understand and appreciate the unique skills and life experiences ex-service members can bring to a role. That’s why we’ve dedicated ourselves to creating new programs for the veteran community–providing social support and vital new job opportunities. Programs like The Cohen Family Clinic provide free, high-quality, integrated mental healthcare to veterans and their families. Our Veteran Resource Group gives veterans an opportunity to support each other through initiatives such as our veteran buddy program to aid new veteran hires and give back to the veteran community by participating in charitable and civic events such as the Tunnels to Towers 5k and the New York City Veterans Day Parade. Veterans can also participate in our Monthly Virtual Chats and Veterans Buddy Program, which guides veterans who may be unsure of where to start in their new life  as civilians. NYU Langone and FourBlock have formed a partnership to match Veteran candidates to job opportunities with NYU Langone. FourBlock is a non-profit organization supporting returning service members transitioning from military service to meaningful civilian careers. Their Career Readiness Program, taught by corporate executives in major cities across the U.S., now serves more than 600 transitioning veterans annually. Our Badges of Honor With nine of our clinical specialties among the top five in the nation, 600 physicians recognized as leading doctors in their fields, and over 300 outpatient locations across the New York area and Florida, our renowned, world-class medical service is highly decorated. Similarly, we are proud to share we receive badges of distinction every year for the work we do to support our veteran workforce every day. Hear From Our Veterans Felix L. Dr. Benjamin J. S. David S. Terry L. NYU Langone Health is one of the best places I have worked. A lot of the skills I developed in the Navy transferred over to the facilities side of healthcare. Our leadership is constantly striving to be the best, which motivates me to be better. They really believe in the people they have here and it’s very military friendly.  We want to see our colleagues succeed. We take care  of our own. Facilities Operations Manager My experience serving in the military helped shape how I care for patients today. It played a huge role in my development, both personally and professionally. I know my experience is from many years ago, but I enjoy the opportunity to help other veterans here at NYU Langone Health. Menas S. Gregory, Clinical Psychiatrist I'm a 9-year veteran at the main campus Security Department here at NYU Langone Health. As a 22-year military veteran between active duty and Army National Guard, I have found that a strong common denominator one can link is camaraderie and teamwork. Departments that work together are able to accomplish the mission of providing world-class service and support to our patients. This is who we are, and this is what we do. As in the military, we are proud to serve. Manager-Security I work in the psychiatry department. I just made my 20th year as an NYU employee. I spent 15 of those years doing research for NYU at the Veterans Hospital, working with brilliant minds. It’s easy to say that both the NYU community and the VA community bring out the best in people. If you share your contact information with NYU Langone Health, we may contact you about your healthcare by email, text message, or phone call. This communication may include appointment reminders; sensitive or identifiable information about your condition, diagnosis, or treatment; payment-related messages; quality improvement communications; patient portal–related messages; and other similar types of messages. Email and text message may be unsecure and unencrypted forms of communication. Standard message and data rates may apply for each text message, and communication frequency varies. You can text HELP or STOP at any time. Phone calls may use dialing equipment such as artificial or prerecorded voice technology, or automated telephone dialing systems. You can change your communications preferences or opt out of communications at any time in your account or by talking to your doctor’s office. NYU Langone Health’s Notice of Privacy Practices describes how medical information about you may be used and disclosed and how you can get access to this information. Notice of Privacy Policy Acknowledgment Notice of Privacy Practices in Other Languages Arabic (العربية) Bengali (বাংলা) Chinese (中文) Creole (kreol) Greek (ελληνικά) Italian (Italiano) Korean (한국의) Polish (Polski) Portugese (Português) Russian (Pусский) Spanish (Español) Health Information Exchange (HIE) Fact Sheet and Consent Form in Other Languages Albanian (Shqiptarëve) French (Français) Tagalog (Tagalog) Urdu (اُردُو) Yiddish (ייִדיש) It is the policy of NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone to provide care, treatment, and services free from discrimination related to race, color, national origin, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or parental status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, religion, socioeconomic status, or any other category protected by law. NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone do not exclude from participation, deny benefits to, or engage in discrimination against any person employed or seeking employment on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or parental status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, religion, socioeconomic status, or any other classification protected by applicable federal, state or local law. NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide free aids and services to people with disabilities to communicate effectively such as: Qualified sign language interpreters Written information in various formats including, but not limited to, large print documents If you speak a language other than English, language assistance services are available to you free of charge. These services include: Qualified interpreters Information written in other languages ATENCIÓN: si habla español, tiene a su disposición servicios gratuitos de asistencia lingüística. 注意：如果您使用中文，您可以免費獲得語言援助服務。 ВНИМАНИЕ: Если вы говорите на русском языке, то вам доступны бесплатные услуги перевода. ATANSYON: Si ou pale Kreyòl Ayisyen, gen sèvis èd pou lang ki disponib gratis pou ou. 주의: 한국어를 사용하시는 경우, 언어 지원 서비스를 무료로 이용하실 수 있습니다. ATTENZIONE: In caso la lingua parlata sia l’italiano, sono disponibili servizi di assistenza linguistica gratuiti. אויפמערקזאם: אויב איר רעדט אידיש, עס זענען פארהאן שפראך הילף־דינסטן פאר אייך אומזיסט. মনোযোগ দিন: আপনি যদি বাংলায় কথা বলেন, তাহলে ভাষা সহায়তা পরিষেবাগুলি, বিনামূল্যে আপনার জন্য উপলব্ধ আছে। UWAGA: Jeżeli mówisz po polsku, możesz skorzystać z bezpłatnej pomocy językowej. ملحوظة: إذا كنت تتحدث العربية، فإن خدمات المساعدة اللغوبة متاحة لك بالمجان ATTENTION : Si vous parlez français, des services d’aide linguistique vous sont proposés gratuitement. توجہ دیں: اگر آپ اردو بولتے ہیں تو آپ کو زبان سے متعلق مدد کی خدمات مفت دستیاب ہیں۔ PAUNAWA: Kung nagsasalita ka ng Tagalog, maaari kang gumamit ng mga serbisyong tulong sa wika nang walang bayad. ΠΡΟΣΟΧΗ: Αν μιλάτε ελληνικά, στη διάθεσή σας βρίσκονται υπηρεσίες γλωσσικής υποστήριξης, οι οποίες παρέχονται δωρεάν. KUJDES: Nëse flitni shqip, për ju ka në dispozicion shërbime të asistencës gjuhësore, pa pagesë. For more information about these free services or for assistance at NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, please call: NYU Langone 34th Street and all ambulatory sites: NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital: NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone: If you believe that NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone have failed to provide these services or discriminated against you in another way, you can file a grievance by contacting the following: NYU Langone 34th Street and Ambulatory Sites Patient Relations Director 212-263-7085 545 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016 patientrelations@nyumc.org NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Patient Experience Director 646-754-9753 301 East 17th Street, New York, NY 10003 hjdpatientrelations@nyumc.org NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Patient Experience Manager 347-764-1998 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 patientrelationlutheran@nyumc.org If you need help filing a grievance, the contacts above are also available to help you. A civil rights complaint can also be filed with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Office for Civil Rights, electronically through the Office for Civil Rights Complaint Portal ; by phone at 1-800-368-1019 ; or by mail at: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue, SW, Room 509F, HHH Building, Washington, D.C. 20201. Complaint forms are available on the HHS website The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management’s Hospital Compliance team supports NYU Langone Health’s faculty, administration, and staff in identifying and mitigating legal and compliance risks associated with billing, coding, and reimbursement for hospital-based inpatient and outpatient services. Hospital Compliance conducts billing and documentation-focused reviews throughout NYU Langone Hospitals. The reviews include, but are not limited to, diagnosis coding, MS-DRG assignment, CPT code and HCPCS procedure codes assignment, modifier usage, and Facility Evaluation and Management services. Hospital Compliance also provides group and individual training and education on topics related to billing, coding and documentation upon department request, or if there is a need, identified through internal-focused reviews. 1138614_RR00100778 Job ID: 1138614_RR00100778 Shift: Monday to Friday; 9:00AM – 5:00PM Surgery – C-STAR (S2083) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Data Analyst. In this role, the successful candidate designs and performs statistical analyses under the supervision of the Center of Surgical and Transplant Applied Research C Star leadership team. Analyze clinical data using machine learning techniques to support research outcomes. Develop and maintain models using frameworks like PyTorch or TensorFlow, ensuring they are suitable for handling large-scale datasets. Apply natural language processing methods to interpret and analyze medical texts and patient data. Collaborate with research teams to design and implement models that address specific research questions. Continuously update and refine models based on new research findings and emerging data. Assist in preparing research papers and presentations by providing data-driven insights and analysis. Participate in research meetings and contribute to discussions on methodology and results interpretation. Ensure compliance with data privacy and protection guidelines when handling sensitive medical data. Contribute original thoughts, hypotheses, and analysis to write reports, abstracts, and manuscripts under faculty supervision Support grant proposal submissions and support funder reports for NIH funded Liaise with senior researchers at other institutions to conduct analyses on behalf of national scientific committees Prepare interim reports to summarize ongoing cohort studies for principal investigators, study staff, and data safety and monitoring boards Under faculty supervision, design analytical strategies research proposals and draft statistical analysis plans for grants Performs miscellaneous job duties as assigned Bachelor’s degree in a related discipline (computer science, mathematics, electrical engineering, or related discipline) 0-1 years working experience Practical experience in natural language processing (NLP) and analyzing clinical data. Strong computational and programming skills Familiarity with advanced machine learning and deep learning applied to large datasets. Competence in using machine learning frameworks such as PyTorch or TensorFlow. Understanding of representation models, multi-modal models, and self-supervised learning. Open to candidates with foundational skills in machine learning and data analysis, even if not all advanced criteria are met Strong quantitative aptitude, desire to learn new skills  and information, and ability to interpret complex analytic quantitative information; Strong attention to detail Demonstrated organizational skills, self-motivation, flexibility, and the ability to thrive in a fast-paced, energetic, highly creative, entrepreneurial environment Masters degree in a related discipline computer science mathematics electrical engineering or related discipline Excellent written and verbal communication skills Excellent data visualization skills NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $64,350.00 – $85,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1137803_RR00100430 Job ID: 1137803_RR00100430 Shift: 07:00 AM – 07:30 PM, (3) Flex Days Department: Polysomnography, NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Sleep Laboratory (W6156) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Polysomnography (Sleep) Technologist, (10K Sign-On-Bonus), NYU Langone Sleep Center, Garden City. In this role, the successful Polysomnographic Technologist works under the general supervision of the Medical Director Administrative Director and Supervisors performing diagnostic testing therapeutic services patient care and education They perform technical duties in conjunction with the operation and maintenance of polysomnographic equipment including but not limited to acquisition scoring and report generation. Demonstrates the knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and provide age specific care in the treatment assessment and education of neonatal pediatric adolescent adult and geriatric patients. Explains test procedures to the patient. Shows patient to room orients the patient to the facility amenities educates the patient on testing procedures and completes patient registration using the electronic medical record system. Explains the modality and function of positive air pressure treatment Performs mask fittings, pressure acclimatization and titrations on CPAP BPAP and ASV. Performs nerve stimulator optimization studies. Selects the appropriate equipment calibrates for testing to determine proper functioning and makes adjustments, if necessary. Cleans equipment according to manufacturer and facility standards. Sets up equipment for next use. Replaces electrodes and sensors shown to be in disrepair. Maintains neat and organized workspaces. Notifies management of the need to repair or replace defective equipment and sensors. Attempts troubleshooting of equipment malfunctions. Contacts appropriate vendor or MCIT support. Documents equipment malfunctions in log. Alerts management to improperly functioning equipment or levels of supplies. Measures patients and applies electrodes and sensors according to the 10/20 system and all applicable AASM and facility standards. Stays alert and involved with recordings recognizes any aberrant physiological activity and performs needed interventions in a timely manner. Notifies supervisor and/or physician as indicated to any patient health or practical concerns. Fully documents all aberrant activity. Promptly answers patient calls for the restroom and other patient comfort care needs. Assists patient in unhooking the head box and ensuring patient can safely ambulate to the restroom adjusting wires and room lighting, as required. Maintains artifact free bioelectric signals. Corrects artifact as needed by reapplying repositioning or replacing wires. Performs required computer related procedures Initiates biological recording. Initiates video recording Monitors recording overnight ensuring adequate recording quality Manipulates the video focus and zoom to ensure the patient’s entire body are visible. Performs bio calibrations and impedance checks at the beginning and end of the recording. Thoroughly documents patient status and activities in the study log as prompted as clinically indicated and in the patient summary. Properly identifies studies that may need prioritized scoring interpretation due to the ordering providers requests and emergent conditions that arise during the study. Properly indicates prioritization in the study and notifies relevant scoring staff management fellows and providers, as needed. Follows the AASM and facility procedural protocols for MSLT MWT PSG PAP HSAT and Actigraphy studies, as ordered Educates patients on the use of home sleep testing and actigraphy devices. Provides remote technical support to patients using the devices at home. Demonstrates the knowledge and skills necessary to perform portable monitoring equipment preparation and data download. Obtains 10 sleep continuing education credits each year and completes required monthly interscorer reliability modules. Scores sleep studies according to the AASM Scoring Manual and facility protocols. Generates the appropriate technical report. Adheres to all Joint Commission and Facility Patient Safety Standards. Maintains current BLS certifications RPSGT State License and attends the annual mandatory CPR Drill. Completes all hospital and departmental mandated ongoing training. Stocks organizes and assists in maintaining inventory of clinical supplies. Performs other duties as assigned and as appropriate to shift workflow. To qualify, you must have Registered Polysomnographic Technologist RPSGT Certification within 12 months of date of hire. Current NYS Polysomnographic Technologist.  Authorization or NYS Respiratory Therapist license,  Current AHA Basic Life Support BLS Certification. Excellent communication both oral and written strong interpersonal skills. Basic computer skill, required. Two (2) years experience working as a Polysomnographic Technologist and an Associate’s D egree or higher in a healthcare related field is preferred. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $102,449.848 – $111,955.504 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Sleep Technologist II, full time 1137156_RR00098165 Job ID: 1137156_RR00098165 Shift: Monday – Friday, 9AM – 5PM Department: Rehabilitation Therapy, Ambulatory Care Center Ambulatory/Outpatient We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Program Manager, Speech Language Pathology. In this role, the successful candidate The Program Manager of Speech Language Pathology SLP Ambulatory Care Center will be responsible for the management and coordination of all practices for the SLP department This position includes clinical and administrative oversight of operations regarding service delivery monitoring of site OTS budget requests and ongoing supervision for all direct patient care staff and students assigned to the service; provision of direct patient care activities as indicated; and evaluation of the performance of the staff using reliable and valid standards of performance e g reviewing productivity patient access and monitoring number and types of patient contacts This position will be responsible for site specific compliance related issues daily operations and related workflow projects to enhance program efficiency and service delivery Clinical direction will be supported by the Director of the SLP department The Program Manager will also be responsible for keeping the Site Director informed of all relevant updates both clinically and operationally Plans develops organizes and monitors all SLP activities Actively participates in personnel recommendations through active involvement in interviewing Engages candidates in purposeful and valuable dialogue during interview process Reviews and assists with the preparation of reports and interpretation of statistical data for effective use assistance with preparation of budgetary planning when requested and overall departmental decision making Responsible for all timekeeping and payroll processes for full time and per diem SLP staff Is responsible for design implementation and maintenance of electronic documentation system workflow and templates as they pertain to SLP Is responsible for maintaining audits according to regulatory requirements set by the hospital compliance office Exhibits ancillary SLP leadership in regards to other department initiatives including student program department research and representation of necessary leadership in the absence of the Director Exhibits a high level of initiation in regards to program development and performance improvement projects for the SLP units Plans reviews and monitors referrals for relevance and timeliness of service delivery Meets with key personnel of the service and the institution as indicated to promote most effective services Functions as liaison and resource with the inpatient interdisciplinary team on the inpatient service Confers with physicians and other intra disciplinary staff regarding patient care Displays and exhibits appropriate levels of positive communication in regards to staff and colleagues in order to reinforce individual growth among staff and colleagues Regulatory compliance/quality assurance: responsible for ensuring compliance with regulations for SLP services Assists units and SLP department in maintaining compliance in all regulatory requirements including CARF JACHO and DOH Staff productivity/operating budget: assists in the control of SLP hospital costs by seeking the most effective and efficient mechanisms of performing functions Monitors accuracy of charge entries and creates appropriate mechanisms for the use of support staff for ancillary IP duties Works with the Site Director on optimal staff utilization in conjunction with hospital labor productivity processes Produces the necessary IP quantitative data i e volumes of visits staff productivity and patient satisfaction Performs effective objective and detailed analysis for effective use and decision making Able to summarize this information into a tangible format to assist management team in decision making Management and supervision of all clinical and support staff in all programs Orientates and participates in all staff clinical training in designated units and programs Performs these activities with diligence and thoroughness in order to facilitate staff learning To qualify you must have a Masters degree in SLP from an accredited institution Current New York State license Certification of Clinical Competence in Speech Language Pathology Active ASHA membership At least seven years of experience in a management position including a minimum of two years of supervisory experience Strong background in clinical program operations and program development Strong and proficient interpersonal and communication skills secondary to significant interactions with departmental administrators and medical staff Demonstrates proficiency in skills required to treat assigned patient populations and clinical oversight. Speech Pathologist Lic-NYS, ASHA Cert NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $62,400.00 – $162,649.75 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Speech Pathologist - Brooklyn Physical Therapist I - Brooklyn Rehabilitation Aide*, Physical Therapy (Part Time 22.5 hrs per week) / Hospital 1137015_RR00099046 Faculty Group Practice Senior Ultrasound Tech – Manhattan (35) Job ID: 1137015_RR00099046 Shift: M-F; 8AM – 4PM Department: Allied Health, IBD Center (S1995) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Faculty Group Practice Senior Ultrasound Tech (35). In this role, the successful candidate In this role the successful candidate will be responsible for performing diagnostic sonographic examinations utilizing ultrasonic equipment in various modes and techniques to locate evaluate and record pertinent anatomical pathological and functional data Operates ultrasound equipment to make quality images; performs studies in required modalities Provides training guidance to Ultrasound Technology students Provides for Patient comfort and arranges equipment for procedure Prepares equipment and supplies according to established departmental procedures Interacts with patients by identifying self to patient and verifies the identity of the patient by checking the patients ID bracelet or verbal acknowledgement by patient Explains the procedure and equipment to the patient clearly Provides for patient privacy at all times Maintains equipment in proper functioning order Cleans and prepares equipment of patient application Sterilizes equipment after each isolation patient in accordance with nursing and departmental policies Perform predetermined preventative maintenance to ensure equipment is operating efficiently Performing the ultrasound and ensuring the transducer probe is capturing images correctly Evaluating the images for their quality and interpreting what the image captured Presenting images and preliminary findings to physicians and the healthcare team Maintaining patient records and adding medical notes related to the ultrasound procedure Understands and utilizes imaging techniques for intestinal ultrasound for inflammatory bowel disease To qualify you must have a Minimum Qualifications:Associate s Degree Two years of college and completion of one year program in Ultrasound Certificate from an approved ultrasound/vascular technology education program Registered by ARDMS Five years ultrasound experience. Am Rgtry Diagn Med Sonographer NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $101,420.80 – $112,020.80 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Nursing Attendant-Central Nursing Service-Flex Shift(37.5 Hours) Case Management Assistant 1137369_RR00099769 Per Diem-Massage Therapist – **Cancer Center/Oncology Cert highly preferred** Job ID: 1137369_RR00099769 Shift: Mon – Fri; 9am-5pm, as needed Department: Rehabilitation Therapy, CancerCtr-Clinical Admin (H1837) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Per Diem-Massage Therapist – **Cancer Center/Oncology Cert highly preferred**. In this role, the successful candidate will provide massage therapy for oncology patients in the NYU Clinical Cancer Center and associated sites Documents treatment notes in electronic medical record Supports patients in developing additional means of self care for relaxation such as meditation and yoga Educates patients on specific massage techniques used in oncology massage regarding benefits safety and optimal dosing for symptom management Obtains medical clearance from MD or RN before performing massage therapy Develops individual treatment plans based on patients symptoms To qualify you must have an Associate’s Degree Valid NYS license in massage therapy Three years experience providing massage therapy in a clinical setting Advanced training in one or more of the following topics/modalities: a Oncology massage b Hospital based massage c Reiki d Meditation e Manual Lymphatic Drainage NONE OR ISSUE WITH FILE NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $55.00 – $55.00 Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138463_RR00100534 Speech Pathologist – Brooklyn Job ID: 1138463_RR00100534 Shift: Tuesday-Saturday 10AM-6PM. Department: Rehabilitation Therapy, NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn Rehabilitation Services-Speech (L177473) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Speech Pathologist – Brooklyn. In this role, the successful candidate Under direct supervision assists in administering diagnostic and rehabilitative services to patients with speech and language impairments Performs related work CARE PLANNING: Develops and implements a care plan that meets the identified needs of the patient and care partners The care plan must include measurable short and long term goals with time frames DISCHARGE PLANNING: Develops and implements discharge plan in conjunction with patient care partners and other members of the care team OTHER: Participates in investigating methods to improve the clinical management of speech and language disorders and research related to the development of diagnostic and remedial procedures in the design of apparatus Maintains a professional appearance and demonstrates appropriate professionalism during job performance Performs other duties as assigned DOCUMENTATION: Completes all required documentation for patient care and reimbursement Completes and plans all required documentation in medical chart as required by Department guidelines and JACHO/CARF requirements Clinical Documentation is thorough and completed using appropriate medical and clinical terminology PARTICIPATION: Participates in team meetings case conferences and committees as assigned ORGANIZATION: Responsible for certain level of patient care productivity as indicated by individual Unit Procedures Demonstrates the ability to provide expected patient contact as indicated by productivity reports and patient contact analysis EDUCATION AND SUPERVISION: May counsel patients and/or families in their adjustment to speech and language impairments May counsel pre operative or post operative patients to prepare them for surgical procedures and appropriate post operative therapy Participates in Clinical Education of Fieldwork students and other professional Teaches and supervises assigned students in Occupational Therapy techniques skills and procedures Demonstrates a genuine interest in assisting students in enhancing their knowledge and skill levels Encourages positive learning experiences for Career Opportunity Students and other Non Fieldwork students ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION: Assists in the examination of persons with speech and language disorders upon medical referral and the determination of the etiology history and severity of specific disorders through interviewing and testing Assists in the assessment evaluation analysis and treatment of communicative and social handicaps resulting from speech and language impairments and their predicating diseases Assists in investigating and studying underlying causes precipitating factors symptomatic behavior and the emotional mid practical effect upon the patient of speech and language disorders PATIENT PROGRESS: Attends evaluation conferences and rounds to determine progress and prognosis of patients under treatment Assists in the scheduling of examinations preparation of preliminary case histories summaries and reports on the therapeutic progress and goals of patients under treatment INTERVENTIONS: Assists in the planning and administration of remedial programs designed to restore or improve the communicative ability of patients with physiogenic or psychogenic speech and language disorders in order to produce improve or restore appropriate speech thresholds Assists in the treatment of speech and language disorders such as aphasia articulatory defects cerebral palsy cleft palate cluttering delayed speech stuttering and voice disorder including laryngectomy To qualify you must have a A Master s Degree with a major in Speech Language Pathology from an accredited college with three hundred hours of supervised clinical experience in speech language pathology NYS Speech Language Pathology License and ASHA Certification required CPR certification NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $102,543.72 – $103,583.72 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1135474_RR00098205 Job ID: 1135474_RR00098205 Population Health-Epidemiology (S1547) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Program Coordinator. The Department of Population Health at NYU School of Medicine seeks a Program Coordinator for the City Health Dashboard www cityhealthdashboard com and Congressional District Health Dashboard www congressionaldistricthealthdashboard org collectively known as the Health Dashboard Initiatives HDI The Dashboard is a suite of national interactive data websites that provide metrics on health and social drivers of health at the city and congressional district levels Responsibilities for this position include coordinating and providing project management support for mission aligned collaborations and projects with external Dashboard partners including non profit organizations city government employees health department officials and other academic institutions; supporting user research and website design efforts; contributing to the development of outreach and dissemination materials; and other duties as assigned The ideal candidate will have a bachelors or masters degree and related professional experience in public health public policy municipal/local public administration communications or a writing related discipline editing journalism etc Further education or internship/volunteer experience can be considered in lieu of work experience We are a dynamic and diverse team that values collaboration growth and passion for public health We strive to be a supportive environment that encourages team members to have high standards for the quality of our work while also maintaining a balance with other life priorities We believe that high performing teams include people from different backgrounds and experiences who can challenge each other s assumptions with fresh perspectives To that end we actively seek a diverse pool of applicants including those from historically marginalized groups Supporting the Program Supervisor in developing the strategy format and content of strategic projects aimed at translating Dashboard data fostering website engagement and translating data into local action nbsp; Develop a deep understanding of user needs through projects conversations webinars conferences and user feedback forms nbsp; Serve as an internal user advocate understanding and advocating for the interests of website users nbsp; Work cross functionally across the HDI team and our web developer to develop a strategy for researching and improving on HDI website user experience nbsp; Act as the point of contact between outside organizations and the HDI on collaborative projects nbsp; Cultivate relationships with external contractors and support the Program Supervisor in monitoring progress on contracted deliverables Perform project management tasks including creating meeting agendas note taking organizing action items and other coordinating duties as assigned nbsp; Track projects using project management software ClickUp including updating project status documenting timelines creating new tasks and task templates assigning tasks and others Communicate effectively with other project staff and stakeholders including Dashboard senior leadership government leaders and others Work cross functionally and collaboratively within a large team Coordinate nbsp;tasks and work independently in a fast paced environment Other programmatic or administrative tasks as assigned To qualify you must have a Bachelor s degree or equivalent in business administration healthcare administration or related field or an equivalent combination of education and relevant experience Proficiency in using various Microsoft Office applications such as Word Excel Access PowerPoint and Outlook Familiar with Internet applications Effective oral written communication interpersonal skills Ability to interface effectively with all levels of management and must work and communicate effectively with both internal and external customers Ability to work within a team environment as well as independently Time management skills and ability to work well under pressure Ability to Project/Program manage and to multi task while paying attention to details Bachelor s or master s degree in English communications journalism or related field Minimum of four years of progressively responsible related experience including program/project coordination or an equivalent combination of education and experience Demonstrated experience coordinating complex collaborative projects across sectors Comfort working with stakeholders from a variety of backgrounds including government academia media and non profit organizations Proficiency in using various Microsoft Office applications such as World Excel Power Point and Outlook Effective oral written communication and interpersonal skills Ability to interface effectively with all levels of management and work and communicate effectively with both internal and external stakeholder Ability to work within a team environment as well as independently Time management skills and ability to work well under pressure Ability to multitask and project manage Familiarity working with local government or congressional leadership Customer service/coaching experience related to public health and/or data NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $62,400.00 – $73,805.68 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Matters relating to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) privacy and security are collaboratively managed by the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance and Enterprise Risk Management and the information technology security group. To protect our patients’ privacy and confidentiality, NYU Langone Health strives to ensure the privacy and security of protected health information (PHI). The departments implement policies and procedures to manage the acquisition, use, and disclosure of PHI; investigate privacy and security complaints and breaches; and provide regulatory guidance to members of the NYU Langone Health community to ensure that NYU Langone Health complies with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, as well as its own policies. To report a HIPAA concern, please call the HIPAA Helpline at 877-PHI-LOSS or 877-744-5677 . The helpline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in multiple languages. You can also complete an online submission . HIPAA concerns can also be reported to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management at Policies and Forms Policy - Accounting of Disclosures of PHI Policy - Breach Notification Policy - Business Associates Policy - Complaints, No Retaliation, No Waiver of Rights Policy - Designated Record Set Policy - Disclosures of PHI to Family or Friends Policy - Disclosures of PHI by Telephone, Email, or Fax.pdf Policy - General Uses and Disclosures of PHI Policy - HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation Policy - HIPAA Privacy Policy and Procedure Definitions Policy - Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses and Disclosures of PHI Policy - Mitigation of HIPAA-Related Incidents Policy - Restricting Disclosures to a Health Plan Policy - Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Policy - Right to Request Additional Restrictions on Use and Disclosure of PHI Policy - Right to Request an Accounting of Disclosures of PHI Policy - Right to Request an Amendment Policy - Right to Request Confidential or Alternative Communications Policy - Safeguarding PHI Policy - Sanctions for HIPAA Violations Policy - Sensitive PHI Policy - Use and Disclosure of PHI in the Patient Directory Form - Authorization for the Use and Disclosure of PHI and Instructions (medical records request form) Form - Patient Request for an Accounting of Disclosures Form Form - Patient Request to Inspect PHI Form Form - Patient Request to Restrict Disclosures of PHI to an Insurer Form Form - Patient Request to Restrict Uses and Disclosures of PHI Form Form - Request to Amend PHI Form Form - Patient Request for Confidential Communications of PHI Form The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management supports NYU Langone Health’s commitment to a culture of compliance. It provides oversight in matters relating to the code of conduct; supports compliance with Stark and Anti-Kickback statutes; conducts compliance and privacy (HIPAA) investigations and reporting; performs compliance and privacy-related policy review and updates; maintains confidential helplines and web intakes; and provides education required of the compliance program and state and federal laws. The department is available to assist all members of the NYU Langone Health community with any concerns or questions regarding policies, the code of conduct, and/or compliance-related matters. To report a compliance concern, please call the Compliance Helpline at 866-NYU-1212 or 866-698-1212 . The helpline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in multiple languages. You can remain anonymous. You can also complete an . Compliance concerns can also be reported to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management at Preventing Fraud, Waste, and Abuse: Federal False Statements and False Claims Prohibition Against Employing or Contracting with Ineligible Persons and Excluded Individuals NYU Langone Health’s webpages aim to provide general information about the topics they present. They are not intended to make statements concerning the official policies and practices of the institutions unless stated otherwise. A considerable effort has been made in good faith to ensure that material accessible from this site is accurate. Despite this effort, it is clear that errors are inevitable. Consequently, no guarantees are expressed or implied as to the accuracy, timeliness, currency or completeness of any information authored by persons at or agents of NYU or its affiliates, or accessible using links from this site. Nor is any warranty made that the information obtained from this site or that of an affiliate is valuable or useful for any purpose. A reader assumes full responsibility for any actions taken based on information obtained from this website. In particular, we emphasize that the information available through this site should not be interpreted as medical or professional advice. All medical information, from this or any other source, needs carefully to be reviewed with your trusted healthcare provider before being acted upon in any way. The patient stories, testimonials, statements, and opinions presented on this website are applicable to the individuals depicted. Results will vary and may not be representative of the experiences of others. The stories and testimonials are voluntarily provided and are not paid, nor were the individuals provided with free products, services, or any benefits in exchange for their statements. The stories and testimonials are representative of each individual’s experiences, but the exact results and experiences of others will be unique and individual to each patient. New York University Disclaimer The policies, requirements, course offerings, schedules, activities, tuition fees, and calendar of the school and its departments and programs set forth in this site are subject to change without notice at any time at the sole discretion of the administration. Such changes may be of any nature, including, but not limited to, the elimination of the school or college, programs, classes, or activities; the relocation of or modification of the content of any of the foregoing; and the cancellation of scheduled classes or other academic activities. Payment of tuition or attendance at any classes shall constitute a student’s acceptance of the administration’s right as set forth in the above paragraph. Acceptable Use The information resources of NYU Langone Health are provided to facilitate the business of NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Langone Health, and their affiliates. Use of the information presented in these webpages is for the personal use of you, the individual reading the pages. Use of information from this site for commercial purposes, other than those approved by the School and NYU Langone Health, is not permitted. Use of data, algorithms and conceptual information contained in the faculty profile and research webpages is forbidden without permission from the authors and NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Use of NYU, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, or NYU Langone Health icons and logos is restricted: these icons and logos may not be used without the permission of NYU or NYU Langone Health. Use of addresses, email addresses, or phone numbers for the purpose of contacting individuals at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Langone Health for any purpose other than the conduct of the business of the School, NYU Langone Health, or its affiliates is not permitted. Copyright Unless otherwise noted, all documents accessed from this site are viewed as a precious resource of NYU and are Copyright, New York University, All Rights Reserved. Use of any data or other materials accessed from this site without the permission of the authors and NYU may result in action being taken against offenders. Advertising on Our Website NYU Langone Health is comprised of nonprofit organizations. We do not permit the use of advertising for any third-party organizations on our websites. The Conflicts of Interest Management Unit (CIMU) ensures the integrity and objectivity of business decision-making and research credibility at NYU Langone Health. The CIMU coordinates the disclosure and reporting of potential conflicts of interest, as well as identifies and manages them in accordance with NYU Langone’s conflicts of interest policies. Additionally, the CIMU makes certain that NYU Langone Health is compliant with rules and regulations, such as the Public Health Service (PHS) financial conflict of interest regulations, the Sunshine Act, and the NY Non-Profit Revitalization Act, among others. Adequate management of such matters eliminates any impropriety, or the perception of impropriety, and helps to maintain the public’s trust in NYU Langone. If you have any questions, please contact CIMU at Conflict of Interest Policies Conflict of interest policies apply to all of us—trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, employees, trainees, students, volunteers, vendors, contractors, consultants, and agents of the NYU Langone community—and help us uphold a principled partnership with the industry and avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest. For ease of reference, these policies are organized into three parts. Business Conflicts of Interest Policies These policies cover general business conflicts of interest and apply to all members in the NYU Langone community, with the exception of Trustees (see Conflicts of Interest for Trustees, Officers, and Key Persons). Research Conflicts of Interest Policies These policies consist of two policies, the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Research, which applies to all investigators participating in a sponsored project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health; and the Policy on Institutional Conflicts of Interest in Human Subjects Research, which applies to financial interests that NYU or NYU Langone Health may have in research being conducted on human subjects at the institution. Faculty Conflicts of Commitment and Consulting Policies These policies apply to all faculty members of NYU Langone Health and pertain to conflicts arising from faculty members’ outside activities and to his or her obligations to NYU and NYU Langone Health. NYU Langone Health Conflict Policies Policy - Business Affairs Conflicts of Interest Policy - Faculty Conflicts of Commitment Policy - Faculty Consulting Policy - Conflicts of Interest for Trustees, Officers, and Key Persons Form - Faculty Consulting Addendum for Use with Consulting Agreements NYU Policy Applicable to NYU Grossman School of Medicine Faculty Policy - NYU Academic Conflicts Read about our public notices from NYU Langone. Notice of Change Healthcare Security Incident Magnet Recognition Program Site Visit FEMA-Funded Bid Opportunities Other Bid Opportunities Requests for Quotes (RFQs) Requests for Proposals (RFPs) Request for Quotes (RFQs) Request for Proposals (RFPs) Request for Information NYU Langone Health’s policies and disclaimers address HIPAA privacy, billing and research compliance, conflicts of interests, and other compliance related information and policies. 1138606_RR00100821 Job ID: 1138606_RR00100821 Shift: 5 days a week, 11am to 7pm, rotating weekends and holidays Department: Allied Health, NSG-Central Nursing Service (H340) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Nursing Attendant-Central Nursing Service-Flex Shift(37.5 Hours). In this role, the successful candidate Assists in implementation of the nursing process by performing direct and indirect patient care to assigned patients under the supervision of the Registered Professional Nurse Assists in maintaining an orderly and safe patient care environment and unit Assists with Admission/Transfer/Discharge of patients: Orients patient to hospital environment. Provides patient with toileting supplies. Assists patient to remove clothes, complete property check list and safeguard personal property through Security. Assists in transfer of patients by gathering belongings, completion of clothing list and assisting in moving the patient. Prepares bedside unit to receive patients. Discharges: Assists patient to dress and pack personal belongings. Escorts necessary remains with until he/she has left building. Conducts rounds toileting, positioning, comfort, safety needs. Answers lights and responds to patient needs promptly. Assemble O2 (e.g., nasal cannula) suction set- ups. Provides basic hygiene patients: bathing, AM/PM care, mouth denture hair nail foot care, shaving, assists patients with bedpan, urinal and/or commode. Prepares patients meals including: Clearing overbed tables placing them within reach patient. Positioning patient correctly for eating/tube feedings. Assisting patients by preparing utensils and food items. Feeding patients. Performs and/or assist simple treatments. Remove reapply SCD wraps directed the RN. Assists RN in enema procedures. Collects specimens RN. Informs RN any audible clinical alarms such IV pumps, feeding ventilators, bedside monitors Assists moving, lifting, transporting patients. removal security items prior procedures, needed. Changes linen accordance policy necessary. Takes electronically records blood pressure, temperature, pulse, pulse oximetry, respiration per care level standard and as directed by the RN. Reports abnormalities to RN. Weighs on admission, ordered, Measures oral intake, urinary output, bowel elimination, gastric drainage onto I&O record (form or electronic). Calculates 8 hour totals. Empties drainage bags. post mortem observations continuous observation restraints, directed. Reports observed condition Responds meets patient/family needs customer concerns soon possible compassion and understanding. Established effective, caring relationships with staff, patients, family and other members of the health care team. Maintains competence in-service educational programs. Attends staff meetings reviews/signs minutes not attended. Maintains a safe and uncluttered environment of care in patient rooms including removing excessive furniture, supplies and equipment. supply equipment management patient, procedure rooms standards. cleanliness utility pantries assigned. duties errands, relieving units, bringing stretchers assisting of the health team, as directed. aligned mission values organization. To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or equivalent Required Graduate of Certified Nursing Attendant program or minimum 6 months relevant experience BLS or Heartsaver CPR/AED certification Issued by the American Heart Association AHA OR Heartsaver CPR/AED certification Issued by the American Heart Association AHA is required upon entry to the position Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; Strong customer service and communication skills. Basic Life Support Cert NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $48,102.66 – $50,245.06 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138348_RR00100087 Job ID: 1138348_RR00100087 Department: Allied Health, NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn Social Work (L179583) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Case Management Assistant. In this role, the successful candidate The Case Management Assistant under the direction of the Assistant Director s of the Department of Case Management will be responsible for providing administrative support services to the professional staff in the department 1 With direction assists in the completion of documentation necessary to develop and implement a post acute discharge plan for patients Performs other related duties as assigned or requested Assists in completion of eligibility documents assessment forms etc as necessary and appropriate Provides information relative to services specific programs and treatment options offered by LMC Assists in the collection and reporting of timely accurate statistical data Maintains professional documentation as defined by organizational policy and procedure Work with financial counselors to assist patients with Medicaid Medicare and other financial resources when necessary Assemble resources on available benefits/entitlements and referral services Obtain approval for hospital provided prescriptions for patients being discharged Assists in facilitating discharges for homeless patients including assistance in completion of appropriate packet getting acceptance and arranging transportation Coordinates the arrangement s for referrals for transportation durable medical equipment residential facility placements and other facilities as needed for all eligible patients Assists in obtaining authorizations for transition to the next level of care i e home acute/subacute rehab facility transportation DME etc Utilizes knowledge of community resources to refer patients to appropriate services to ensure continuity and quality of care Serve as liaison with community agencies and referral services Inputs essential data from third party payors into Allscripts Screens telephone and fax requests Responds to inquiries and makes appropriate referrals Assist case managers social workers and other members of the interdisciplinary team in all discharge planning matters Collaborates with the interdisciplinary team to assist in the implementation of the discharge plan To qualify you must have a Minimum Education: Bachelors Degree Minimum Experience /Requirements: Minimum 1 year service in a consumer service field Effective oral written communication and interpersonal skills Ability to work collaboratively and cooperatively within a team and with internal and external customers Strong organizational skills Ability to set priorities Must be able to manage a variable workload Must be flexible in a changing environment Proficient in use of computer ability to learn new programs NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $33,778.63 – $53,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Our expert care providers treat thousands of conditions, diseases, illnesses, and injuries. Top Ranked NYU Langone Ranks No. 1 in Nation for Neurology & Neurosurgery Read the Story Search Condition by Name Please wait result for " " Clear search result Related conditions related result No result for " Refine your search or try a different term. Conditions by Type Asthma, bronchiectasis, COPD, emphysema, lung cancer, sleep disorders, and more. Arthritis, back pain, fractures, hernia, joint pain, sports injuries, sprains and strains, and more. Alzheimer’s disease, concussion, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, stroke, and more. Anemia, blood disorders, leukemia, lymphoma, melanoma, mesothelioma, sarcoma, and more. Diabetes, metabolic syndrome, osteoporosis, pituitary and thyroid disorders, and more. Chron's disease, colon polyps, GERD, gluten sensitivity, IBD, IBS, ulcerative colitis, and more. Allergies, balance disorders, hearing loss, sinus infections, and more. Astigmatism, cataract, corneal disease, glaucoma, macular degeneration, retinopathy, stye, and more. Birth defect, limb abnormality, musclar dystrophy, spina bifida, and more. Aortic and mitral valve disease, heart attack, heart rhythm disorders, hypertension, stroke, and more. Behcet's disease, lupus, myasthenia gravis, rheumatoid and psoriatic arthritis, and more. AIDS, HIV, hepatitis B and C, bone and soft tissue infections, travel-related infections, and more. Cirrhosis, kidney disease, prostate cancer, ureteral and urethral stricture, UTI, and more. Addiction, anxiety, autism, ADHD, depression, eating disorders, PTSD, schizophrenia, and more. Calcium disorder, Chron's disease, eating disorders, lipid disorders, obesity, and more. Behavioral problems, cerebral palsy, developmental delays, learning disorders, and more. Erectile dysfunction, fibroids, gynecologic cancer, menopause, prostate disease, and more. Acne, aging skin, eczema, hair loss, psoriasis, rosacea, shingles, varicose veins, warts, and more. Conditions A to Z 1,929 conditions Search results beginning with Back to top Abdominal abscess Find a doctor & schedule Abdominal adhesions Abdominal aortic aneurysm Abdominal hernia Abdominal infection Abdominal mass Our approach to Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children Abdominal tumor Our approach to: Liver Cancer & Liver Metastases Aberrant parathyroid gland Abnormal breathing Abnormal eye pressure Abnormal gait Abnormal heart rhythms Our approach to Arrhythmias in Children Abnormal liver test Abnormal pap test results Our approach to Abnormal Pap Test Results Abnormal sensation Abnormal uterine bleeding Abscess Absence seizures Acetabular dysplasia Our approach to Achalasia Achilles injury Our approach to Achilles Injury Achilles tendon rupture Our approach to Achondroplasia in Children Acid base disorder Acne Our approach to Acne Our approach to Acoustic Neuroma Acromegaly Acromioclavicular sprain Actinic keratosis Acute coronary syndrome Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis Acute flaccid myelitis Acute liver failure Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Leukemia Leukemia in Children Acute myelogenous leukemia Acute Myeloid Leukemia Acute pain Acute pancreatitis Acute renal failure Acute respiratory distress Acute respiratory failure Acute stress disorder Acute urinary retention Addiction Our approach to Addiction Addison's disease Adductor tendinitis Adenocarcinoma Our approach to Sinonasal Cancer Adenoid cystic carcinoma of the head and neck Adenoid cystic carcinoma of the lung Adenoiditis Our approach to Tonsillitis & Adenoiditis in Children Adenotonsillar hypertrophy Adhesive capsulitis Adjustment disorder Adnexal mass Adolescent obesity Adrenal adenomas Adrenal gland disorders Our approach to Adrenal Tumors Adrenal insufficiency Adrenal mass Adrenal tumor Our approach to Adult Congenital Heart Disease Adult respiratory distress syndrome Adult-onset still disease Advanced sleep phase syndrome Aging skin Our approach to Aging Skin Agoraphobia Aids-related lymphoma Our approach to AIDS-Related Lymphoma Aids-related malignancies Airway growth or tumor Airway obstruction Alcohol-related liver disease Allergic rhinitis Allergy Alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency Alzheimer's disease Our approach to Alzheimer’s Disease Ampullary cancer Ampullary polyp Amyloidosis Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Our approach to Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Anal cancer Anal fissure Anal fistula Anal warts Anatomical narrow angle Anca-associated vasculitis Anemia Aneurysm of aortic arch Aneurysm of aortic root Angelman syndrome Angina Angioedema Angiomyolipomas Angiosarcoma Sarcoma in Children Soft Tissue Sarcoma Ankle fracture Ankle injuries Ankle pain Ankle strain Ankle tendinitis Ankle tendon tear Ankylosing spondylitis Anomalous pulmonary vein Anorectal abscess Anorectal malformations Anorexia Our approach to Eating Disorders in Children & Adolescents Anterior cruciate ligament tear Our approach to Anterior Cruciate Ligament Tears Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy Antibiotic-resistant infections Our approach to Antibiotic-Resistant Infections Antiphospholipid syndrome Our approach to Antiphospholipid Syndrome Our approach to Anxiety Disorders Our approach to Aortic Aneurysm Aortic disease Our approach to Aortic Dissection Our approach to Aortic Valve Disease Aortic valve insufficiency Aortic valve stenosis Aortoiliac occlusive disease Our approach to Aortoiliac Occlusive Disease Aortopulmonary window Aphasia Appendicitis Appendix tumor Apraxia Arm fracture Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia Arterial or blood vessel malformation of head or neck Arteriosclerosis Arteriovenous fistula Arteriovenous malformation Our approach to Juvenile Arthritis Arthrogryposis Our approach to Arthrogryposis in Children Artificial urinary sphincter Ascites, gastrointestinal Asperger syndrome Our approach to Autism Spectrum Disorder in Children Aspiration pneumonia Our approach to Asthma Astigmatism Astrocytoma Glioma & Astrocytoma Spinal Cord Tumors Asymmetric or enlarged labia Ataxia Atherosclerosis Atopic dermatitis Atrial fibrillation & atrial flutter Our approach to Atrial Fibrillation & Atrial Flutter Atrial flutter Atrial septal defect Our approach to Congenital Heart Defects in Children Atrioventricular septal defect Attention deficit disorder in adults Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Our approach to Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in children Our approach to Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder in Children Atypia of breast Our approach to Atypical Facial Pain Atypical hyperplasia Autism Autoimmune disorder of inner ear Autoimmune encephalitis Autoimmune hepatitis Our approach to Autoimmune Hepatitis in Children Autoimmune pancreatitis Autoimmune thyroid disease Autoinflammatory syndrome Our approach to Autonomic Disorders Autonomic neuropathy Axial spondyloarthritis Azoospermia B Back injury Our approach to Back Pain Back problem Back strain Bacterial resistance Baker's cyst Balance disorders Barrett's esophagus Our approach to Barrett’s Esophagus Basal cell cancer Our approach to Basal & Squamous Cell Skin Cancers Base of tongue cancer Behavior disorder Behavior pattern Behcet's disease Our approach to Behcet’s Disease Bell's palsy Benign breast disease Benign liver cyst Benign liver tumor Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (bppv) Benign prostatic hyperplasia Benign prostatic hypertrophy Benign prostatic obstruction Benign skin tumor Our approach to Benign Vocal Cord Lesions Biceps tendinitis Bile duct abnormalities Bile duct cancer Our approach to Bile Duct Cancer Bile duct cysts Bile duct disease Bile duct obstruction Bile duct stone Bile duct stricture Bile reflux Our approach to Biliary Atresia in Children Biliary cancer Biliary colic Biliary disease Biliary stricture Our approach to Bipolar Disorder Birth defect Birthmark Our approach to Birthmarks in Children Black esophagus Our approach to Bladder Cancer Bladder diverticulum Bladder exstrophy and epispadias Bladder pain Bladder problem Bladder prolapse Bladder stone Bleeding tendency Blepharitis Blepharospasm Blood cancer Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma Hairy Cell Leukemia Hodgkin Lymphoma in Children Myelodysplastic Syndromes Myeloproliferative Disorders Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Children Blood clotting disorder Our approach to von Willebrand Disease in Children Blood disorder Hemophilia in Children Multiple Myeloma Sickle Cell Disease in Children von Willebrand Disease in Children Blount disease Our approach to Blount Disease in Children Blurred vision Boil Bone & joint infections Bone Sarcoma Bone cysts Bone spurs Bone tumor Bone tumor of head or neck Bowel dysfunction Bowel incontinence Bph (without retention) Brachial plexus injuries Our approach to Brachial Plexus Injuries Our approach to Bradycardia Brain abscess Brain aneurysm Brain bleeding Brain cancer Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma Brain inflammation Brain injury Brain metastasis Brain tumor Brain & Spinal Cord Tumors in Children Branchial cleft Branchial cleft cyst Branchial vestige Brca gene Male Breast Cancer Breast disease Breathing disorder during sleeping Hoarseness in Children Respiratory Problems in Neurologically Impaired Children Sleep Apnea in Children Sleep Disorders in Children Brittle bone disease Our approach to Osteogenesis Imperfecta in Children Our approach to Bronchiectasis Brown syndrome Brugada syndrome Bulimia Our approach to Bunions Burn injury Burning mouth syndrome Bursitis & tendinitis Our approach to Bursitis & Tendinitis Cachexia Cafe au lait spot Calcaneovalgus foot Calcium disorder Cancer of skin of face, scalp or eyelid Cancer of throat or voice box Cancer pain Capillary hemangioma Capillary malformation Carbon monoxide poisoning Our approach to Poisoning in Children Carcinoid tumor Carcinoma of head and neck Cardiac amyloidosis Cardiac device implant Our approach to Cardiac Device Management Cardiac disease in pregnancy Cardiac myxoma Cardiomyopathy & heart failure Our approach to Cardiomyopathy & Heart Failure Our approach to Carotid Artery Disease Our approach to Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Cartilage injury Cataract Our approach to Cataract Catheter changes Catheterizable pouches Catheterizable stoma Cavernoma Cavernous hemangioma Cavus foot Celiac disease & gluten sensitivity Our approach to Celiac Disease & Gluten Sensitivity Celiac disease in children Our approach to Celiac Disease in Children Cellulitis Central centrifugal cicatricial alopecia Central nervous system cancer Central nervous system lymphoma Our approach to Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma Central nervous system vascular malformation Central post-stroke pain Central sleep apnea Our approach to Cerebral Palsy in Children Cerebral vasculitis Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis Cerebrovascular disorder Ceruloplasmin Our approach to Cervical Cancer Cervical disc disease Cervical dystonia Cervical myelopathy Cervical precancer Cervical radiculopathy Cervical spinal stenosis Cervical spine disc herniated Cervical spine fracture Cervicogenic headache Cesarean scar defect Chalazion Charcot foot Our approach to Charcot Foot Charcot marie tooth disease Chest pain Chiari malformation Our approach to Spina Bifida in Children Chilblains Child abuse Child neglect Children with complex congenital hand conditions Choanal atresia Cholangiocarcinoma Cholecystitis Choledochal cyst Cholestasis Cholesteatoma Chondrosarcoma Chorea Choroid plexus papilloma Choroideremia Chronic bronchitis Chronic cough Chronic Cough in Children Chronic daily headache Chronic diarrhea Chronic ear infection Chronic fatigue syndrome Chronic infection or problems with jaw bone Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy Chronic liver disease Chronic lung disease of prematurity Our approach to Chronic Lung Disease of Prematurity Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) Chronic migraines Chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) Our approach to Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Chronic pancreatitis Chronic renal failure Our approach to Chronic Kidney Disease in Children Chronic respiratory failure Our approach to Chronic Sinusitis Chronic thyroiditis Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (cte) Our approach to Chronic Venous Insufficiency Circadian rhythm sleep disorder Circumcision concerns Claudication Clavicle fracture Cleft lip Cleft palate Clostridium difficile infections Our approach to Clostridium Difficile Infections Cloudy vision Coarctation Cognitive disorder Cognitive impairment Colitis Colon cancer Our approach to Colorectal Cancer Colon inflammation Colon metastases Colon polyp Colon tumor Colonic dysmotility Colonic fistula Colovesical fistula Combined hyperlipidemia Common variable immunodeficiency Our approach to Compartment Syndrome Complex regional pain syndrome Complication associated with cardiac implant Complication of transplant Complications of diabetes mellitus Compression fracture Compression injury of nerve Our approach to Concussion Conductive hearing loss Confusional arousals Congenital abnormality of respiratory system Our approach to Respiratory Problems in Neurologically Impaired Children Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Our approach to Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia Congenital atresia of intestinal tract Congenital clubfoot Our approach to Clubfoot in Children Congenital facial anomalies Congenital hepatic fibrosis Congenital hydrocephalus Our approach to Hydrocephalus in Children Congenital hypertrophy of the retina and retinal pigment epithelium Congenital hypothyroidism Our approach to Congenital Hypothyroidism Congenital kyphosis Congenital neck mass Congenital posterior urethral valve Our approach to Congenital Kidney & Urinary Tract Problems Congenital pulmonary airway malformation (cpam) Congenital retinoschisis Congenital scoliosis Our approach to Scoliosis in Children Congenital short femur Congestion Conjunctival melanoma Conjunctivitis Our approach to Conjunctivitis Connective tissue disease Our approach to Lupus in Children Constipation Contact dermatitis Continuous spike-and-wave during sleep Convergence insufficiency Convulsions Cor triatriatum Corneal abrasion Corneal disease Corneal ulcer Coronary artery anomaly Our approach to Coronary Artery Disease Corticobasal degeneration Cortisol Craniopharyngioma Creutzfeldt jakob disease Critical limb ischemia Crohn's disease Our approach to Crohn’s Disease in Children Crossed eye Crush injury Cubital tunnel syndrome Cumulative trauma disorder Cushing's syndrome Cutaneous lupus Our approach to Cutaneous Lupus Cutaneous lymphoma Our approach to Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma Cyclic vomiting syndrome Our approach to Cystic Fibrosis in Children Cystocele D Dandy walker syndrome De quervain syndrome Deafness Our approach to Deep Vein Thrombosis Our approach to Degenerative Disc Disease Delayed gastric emptying Delayed puberty Delayed sleep wake phase disorder Our approach to Dementia Our approach to Depression Depressive disorder Our approach to Mood Disorders in Children Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans Dermatomyositis Our approach to Dermatomyositis Developmental delay Developmental Delays in Children Disorders of Puberty Developmental disability Developmental dysplasia of the hip Developmental regression Deviated septum Our approach to Deviated Septum Diabetes insipidus Diabetes risk Diabetic foot Our approach to Diabetic Foot Ulcers Diabetic nerve damage Diabetic retinopathy Diaphragm disease Difficulty urinating Diffuse large b-cell lymphoma Digestive system disease Dilated cardiomyopathy Discogenic pain Dislocated finger Dislocated intraocular lens Dislocated wrist Disorder of orbit Disorder of soft tissue Disruptive behavior disorder Our approach to Behavioral Problems in Children Distal biceps tendon rupture Our approach to Distal Biceps Tendon Rupture Distal humerus fractures Distal radius fracture Distorted vision Diverticular disease Our approach to Diverticular Disease Double inlet left ventricle Double outlet right ventricle Our approach to Double Vision Dravet syndrome Dropped uterus Drug reactions & hives Our approach to Drug Reactions & Hives Drug resistant epilepsy Drug-induced liver injury Drusen Dry eye syndrome Our approach to Dry Eye Syndrome Duane syndrome Duodenal cancer Duodenal ulcer Duplication 15q syndrome Dupuytren's contracture Dysautonomia Dyslipidemia Dysmenorrhea Dyspareunia Dyssomnia Dyssynergic defecation Dystonia E coli infection Ear infection Ear malformation Ear shape concern Ear tumor (benign or malignant) Ear wax Early onset alzheimers disease Early satiety Eating disorders Our approach to Eating Disorders Ebstein's anomaly Ectopic pregnancy Ectopic ureter Ectropion Eczema Eczema & dermatitis Our approach to Eczema & Dermatitis Ehlers danlos syndrome Ejaculation disorder Elbow arthritis Elbow contracture Elbow dislocation Elbow injury Elbow pain Elbow sprains & strains Our approach to Elbow Sprains & Strains Elbow stiffness Elbow swelling Elbow tendinitis Electrolyte imbalance Elevated prostate-specific antigen Emotional disorder Our approach to Endometrial Cancer Endometrial hyperplasia Our approach to Endometriosis Endothelial dysfunction Enlarged kidney Enlarged liver Enlarged prostate Enlarged spleen Enteritis Enterocutaneous fistula Entropion Environmental lung disease Eosinophilic esophagitis Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis Ependymoma Epicondylitis Epigastric hernia Epilepsy & seizure disorders Our approach to Epilepsy & Seizure Disorders Epilepsy in pregnancy Epileptic encephalopathy Epiretinal membrane Episiotomy complications Epithelial cyst Epstein barr virus Erb's palsy Our approach to Erectile Dysfunction Erythema Esophageal atresia Our approach to Esophageal Cancer Esophageal disease Esophageal disorder Esophageal motility disorders Esophageal mucosal ring Esophageal spasm Esophageal stricture Esophageal varices Esophagitis Esotropia Essential thrombocythemia (et) Essential tremor Ewing's sarcoma Our approach to Bone Sarcoma Excess eyelid skin Excessive daytime sleepiness Excessive hairiness Excessive tearing Excoriation Exfoliation syndrome Exotropia External compression headache External ear tumor Eye cancer Intraocular Melanoma in Adults Retinoblastoma in Children Eye floater Eye infection Eye injury Eye movement disorder Eye pain Eye redness Eyelid irritation Eyelid malposition Eyelid tumor Fabry disease Facet joint pain Facial fracture Facial laceration Facial nerve paralysis Our approach to Facial Nerve Paralysis Facial palsy Facial skin cancer Facial spasm Fahr's syndrome Our approach to Failed Back Surgery Syndrome Failed vision screenings Fainting Fallopian tube cancer Familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) Our approach to Familial Dysautonomia Familial hypercholesterolemia Familial mediterranean fever Family history of prostate cancer Fatty liver disease Fatty tumor Febrile seizure Fecal incontinence Feeding disorder Female athlete triad syndrome Female genital disorder Female genital fistula Female germ cell tumor Female incontinence Female pattern alopecia (balding or hair loss) Female reproductive system disorder Our approach to Polycystic Ovary Syndrome in Adolescents Female stress incontinence Female urethral stricture Our approach to Female Urinary Incontinence Femoral anteversion Femoral hernia Fertility Our approach to Fibroids Our approach to Fibromyalgia Fibrosarcoma Finger fracture Finger tendon pulley injury Flashing lights Flat feet Fluid in middle ear Fluids disorder Our approach to Fluid & Electrolyte Disorders in Children Focal nodular hyperplasia, liver Follicular lymphoma Follicular thyroid cancer Food poisoning Food protein induced enterocolitis syndrome (fpies) Foot & ankle arthritis Our approach to Foot & Ankle Arthritis Foot & ankle sprains Our approach to Foot & Ankle Sprains Foot deformity Foot drop Foot fracture Foot injury Foot pain Foot tendinitis Foot tumor Foreign body in digestive tract Foreign body in ear Fourth nerve palsy Fracture healing Fragile x-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (fxtas) Frailty Frequent bowel movements Frontotemporal dementia Our approach to Frozen Shoulder Fuchs' dystrophy Functional bowel disorders Functional dyspepsia Functional esophageal disorder Fungal infection Fusion procedure Galactorrhea Gallbladder cancer Gallbladder disease Gallbladder dyskinesia Gallbladder polyp Gallstone disease Our approach to Ganglion Cysts Gas/bloating Gastric cancer Gastritis Our approach to Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Gastrointestinal bleeding Gastrointestinal cancer Small Intestine Cancer Gastrointestinal disease Gastrointestinal infection Gastrointestinal motility disorders Gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumor Gastrointestinal obstruction Gastrointestinal stromal tumor Gastroparesis Gaucher disease Gender affirming hysterectomy patients, female to male only Gender dysphoria Generalized anxiety disorder Genetic skin disease Genital lymphedema Genitourinary neoplasm Genitourinary neuroendocrine tumor Giant cell arteritis Giant cell tumor Glaucoma Our approach to Glaucoma Glioblastoma Globus Glomerular disease Glomerulonephritis Our approach to Glomerulonephritis in Children Glomus jugulare tumor Glossopharyngeal neuralgia Glottic cancer Glottis & subglottic cancer Gluteal tendinitis Gluten sensitivity Goiter Golfer's elbow Gonadal disorder Gorlin syndrome Granuloma annulare Granulomatosis with polyangiitis Graves' disease Our approach to Graves’ Disease in Children Groin injury Groin pain Groin tendinitis Gross hematuria Growth disorder Growth failure Growth hormone deficiency Growth plate Growth Plate Injuries in Children Osgood-Schlatter Disease in Children Guillain-barré syndrome (gbs) Gynecologic cancer Hair disease Our approach to Hair Loss Hallux rigidus Hallux valgus Halo vision Hammer toe Our approach to Hammertoe Hamstring tendinitis Hamstring tendon rupture Hand arthritis Hand deformity Our approach to Congenital Hand Deformities Hand fracture Hand injury Hand pain Hand sprains & strains Our approach to Hand Sprains & Strains Hand tendonitis Hashimoto's disease Hay fever Head & Neck Cancer Hypopharyngeal Cancer Nasopharyngeal Cancer Oral Cancer Salivary Gland Cancer Head and neck lymphedema Head and neck tumors Our approach to Headache Hearing aid clearance Our approach to Hearing Loss Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Heart murmur Heart muscle disease Heart throbbing Heart tumor Heart valve disease Heartburn Heel pain Helicobacter pylori infection Hemangioendothelioma Hemangioma Hemarthrosis Hematologic malignancies Hematoma Hematospermia (blood in semen) Hematuria Hemicrania continua Hemifacial spasm Hemochromatosis Hemoglobinopathy Hemophilia Our approach to Hemophilia in Children Hemorrhoids Henoch schönlein purpura Hepatic artery aneurysm Hepatic encephalopathy Hepatitis a Hepatitis c Hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) Hepatorenal syndrome Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer Our approach to Hernia Our approach to Herniated Disc Herpes simplex virus infection Heterotopic ossification Hht (hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia) Hidradenitis suppurativa Our approach to High Blood Pressure High blood sugar level High breast cancer risk High cholesterol level High grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (hgpin) High triglycerides Hip & pelvic fractures Our approach to Hip & Pelvic Fractures Hip bursitis Hip dislocation Our approach to Developmental Hip Dysplasia Our approach to Hip Impingement Syndrome Hip injury Our approach to Hip Labral Tears Hip pain Our approach to Legg-Calvé-Perthes Disease in Children Hip tendinitis Hiv infections & aids Our approach to HIV Infection & AIDS Hives Hoarseness Our approach to Hoarseness in Children Hoarseness related to growth or tumors of voicebox Hodgkin lymphoma Hole/perforation in ear drum Homonymous hemianopia Hormonal disorder Our approach to Disorders of Puberty Hospital-acquired infection Hot flash Our approach to Human Papillomavirus Human papillomavirus related to cancer of head or neck Humerus fracture Huntington's disease Hydrocele testis Hydronephrosis Hydrosalpinx Hyper-igd periodic fever syndrome Hyperaldosteronism Hypercalcemia Hyperextension injury Hyperhidrosis Hyperopia Our approach to Hyperparathyroidism Hyperpigmentation Hyperplastic polyposis syndrome Hyperprolactinemia Hypersomnia Hyperthyroidism Our approach to Hyperthyroidism Our approach to Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Hypertropia Hypocholesterolemia Hypoglycemia Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism Hyponatremia Hypoparathyroidism Our approach to Hypopharyngeal Cancer Hypopituitarism Hypoplastic left heart syndrome Hypospadias Our approach to Hypospadias in Children Hypothalamic amenorrhea Hypothyroidism Our approach to Hypothyroidism Hypoventilation Hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy Idiopathic hypersomnia Idiopathic intracranial hypertension Our approach to Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Idiopathic torsion dystonia Ileostomy Immunodeficiency syndrome Immunoglobulin g4 related sclerosing disease Immunologic diseases Imperforate anus Imperforate hymen Implantation failure Inability to empty bladder Inadequate sleep hygiene Inborn errors of metabolism Incarcerated hernia Incisional hernia Indeterminate colitis Indigestion Infantile spasms Infection of the blood vessel Infectious colitis Infectious retinal disease Our approach to Infertility in Women Inflamed pancreas Inflammation of the heart valve Inflammation of the membrane surrounding the heart Inflammation of the skeletal muscle Inflammatory bowel disease Our approach to Inflammatory Bowel Disease Inflammatory myopathies Our approach to Inflammatory Myopathies Our approach to Influenza Ingrown nail Inguinal hernia Inherited & congenital retinal disorders Injury of the lumbar spine Insufficient sleep syndrome Insulin resistance Intellectual disability Interpersonal problems Interpersonal skills Interrupted aortic arch Interstitial cystitis Interstitial lung disease Interstitial nephritis Intestinal fistula Intestinal mass Intracranial hemorrhage Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm Intraocular melanoma Involuntary muscle jerking Irregular periods Our approach to Irritable Bowel Syndrome Ischemic cardiomyopathy Ischemic colitis Itching J Jackhammer esophagus Jaundice Jejunostomy Joint disease Joint pain Juvenile idiopathic arthritis Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis K Kabuki syndrome Kaposi sarcoma Our approach to Kaposi Sarcoma Kawasaki disease Keratoconus Kidney abnormalities Wilms Tumor in Children Kidney cyst Our approach to Kidney Disease Kidney failure Kidney malformation Our approach to Kidney Stones Killian-jamieson diverticulum Kissing spine Kleine-levin syndrome Klinefelter syndrome Knee arthritis Knee bursitis Knee cartilage injuries Our approach to Knee Cartilage Injuries Knee dislocation Knee injury Our approach to Osgood-Schlatter Disease in Children Knee ligament tear Knee sprains & strains Our approach to Knee Sprains & Strains Knee strain Knee swelling Knee tendinitis Knock knees child Kock pouch Kyphosis with lordosis Labial adhesions Labial hypertrophy Labyrinthitis Laceration of eyelid Landau kleffner syndrome Laryngeal trauma/fracture Laryngocele Laryngomalacia Laryngopharyngeal reflux (lpr) Lazy eye Our approach to Lazy Eye Learning disorder Our approach to Learning Disorders in Children Lecithin acyltransferase deficiency Left coronary artery structure Leg fracture Leg length discrepancy in child Leg pain Leg ulcer Legg-calvé-perthes disease Leiomyosarcoma Our approach to Sarcoma in Children Leiomyosarcoma of the uterus Lennox-gastaut syndrome Leptomeningeal carcinomatosis Leukodystrophy Lewy body dementia Lgbtq+ health Lichen planus Lichen sclerosus Limb abnormality Achondroplasia in Children Arthrogryposis in Children Clubfoot in Children Osteogenesis Imperfecta in Children Limb length inequality Lip cancer Our approach to Lipid Disorders Lipid metabolism Lipodystrophy Lipoma Liposarcoma Little league elbow Little league shoulder Liver adenoma Our approach to Liver Cancer & Liver Metastases Liver cell cancer Liver cirrhosis Liver cyst Liver disease Liver failure Liver fibrosis Liver function test abnormalities Liver mass Liver metastases Liver tumor Liver varices Lobular carcinoma in situ of breast (lcis) Long qt syndrome Loose body Loss of consciousness Loss of smell Low back strain Low blood pressure Low muscle tone Cerebral Palsy in Children Low sperm count Low tension glaucoma Low testosterone Low vision Lower back pain Our approach to Lower Extremity Arterial Disease Lumbar disc disease Lumbar radiculopathy Lumbar spinal stenosis Lumbar spine disc herniation Lung carcinoma Lung disease Lung infection Lung mass Lung metastasis Lupus nephritis Lyme arthritis Lyme disease Lymphadenopathy Lymphatic disease Lymphatic malformation Lymphatic malformation of head or neck Lymphedema Our approach to Lymphedema Lymphoma Lynch syndrome Lysis of adhesions of spinal cord Lysosomal storage disease Macular degeneration Our approach to Macular Degeneration Macular hole Mal de debarquement Malabsorption Malaria Male breast enlargement Male genital disorder Male germ cell tumor Our approach to Germ Cell Tumors in Children Male infertility Our approach to Male Infertility Male pattern alopecia (balding or hair loss) Male sexual dysfunction Male stress urinary incontinence Male urinary dysfunction Our approach to Male Urinary Dysfunction Malignant mesothelioma Malignant pleural effusion Malignant schwannoma Malnutrition Mandibular fracture Our approach to Marfan Syndrome Maturity-onset diabetes of the young Maxillary fracture Maxillofacial injuries May-thurner syndrome Mayer rokitansky küster hauser syndrome Meatal stenosis Meckel’s diverticulum Mediastinal disease Mediastinal lymphadenopathy Mediastinal tumor Medullary thyroid cancer Medulloblastoma Our approach to Brain & Spinal Cord Tumors in Children Megaureter Meibomian gland dysfunction Meige syndrome Melanoma Melanoma of head or neck Melasma Memory disorder Our approach to Memory Loss Meniere's disease Meningoencephalitis Meniscus tear Our approach to Meniscus Tears Our approach to Menopause Menstrual disorder Menstrual migraine Meralgia paresthetica Merkel cell carcinoma (mcc) Mesenteric ischemia Our approach to Mesenteric Ischemia Mesh complications Mesothelioma Metabolic bone disease Metabolic syndrome Metabolism Metastatic bone cancer Metastatic prostate cancer Metatarsalgia Metatarsus adductus Methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus infection (mrsa) Micrognathia Microhematuria Microscopic colitis Microscopic polyangiitis Microtia Middle ear infection (otitis media) Middle ear tumor Our approach to Migraine Minor salivary gland tumor Mitochondrial disease Our approach to Mitral Valve Disease Mitral valve prolapse Mitral valve stenosis Mixed connective tissue disease Mog antibody-associated disease Molar pregnancy Mole Monogenic diabetes Mononeuropathy Mood disorder Bipolar Disorder in Children Mood Disorders in Children Morphea Motor vehicle injury Our approach to Movement Disorders Moyamoya disease Mucinous cyst Mucinous cystic neoplasm Mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the head and neck Mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the lung Mucopolysaccharidosis Multiple endocrine neoplasia Our approach to Multiple Myeloma Multiple pregnancy Multiple pterygium syndrome Our approach to Multiple Sclerosis Multiple sclerosis in children Multiple system atrophy Muscle contraction headache Muscle disease Muscle pain Muscle spasm Muscle strain Muscular dystrophy Our approach to Muscular Dystrophy Musculoskeletal pain Musculoskeletal problem Our approach to Myasthenia Gravis Mycobacterium infection Myelitis Myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) Myelofibrosis Myeloproliferative disorder Myocardial disease Myocarditis Myofascial pain Myopia Nail disease Nail fungus Nailbed injury Narcolepsy Narrowing of the heart's tricuspid valve Nasal foreign body Nasal obstruction Nasal polyp Nasal sinus cancer Our approach to Head & Neck Cancer Nasal sinus tumor Nasal surgery Our approach to Nasopharyngeal Cancer Nausea Nausea and vomiting Neck abscess Neck mass Head & Neck Masses in Children Our approach to Neck Pain Neck problem Neck swelling Necrobiosis lipoidica Neobladder Neonatal diabetes mellitus Neonatal infection Neonatal respiratory distress Neonatal seizure Nephrotic syndrome Nerve injury Nerve laceration - upper extremity Nerve pain Nerve problems Nerve root injury Nervous system tumor Our approach to Neuroblastoma in Children Neurilemmoma Our approach to Spinal Cord Tumors Neuroendocrine tumor of head and neck Neuroendocrine tumor of the lung Our approach to Neurofibromatosis Neurofibromatosis of head or neck Neurofibrosarcoma Neurogenic bladder Neuroma of foot Neuromuscular disorder Neuromuscular scoliosis Neuromyelitis optica Neuropathic pain Neurosarcoidosis Neutropenia New daily persistent headache Night blindness Night terrors Nocturnal hypoventilation Nodular regenerative hyperplasia Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (nash) Non-healed wound Non-infiltrating lobular carcinoma Non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma Nonhealing fractures Our approach to Nonhealing Fractures Nontuberculous mycobacterial infections Our approach to Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Infections Our approach to Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus Norovirus Nose bleed Nose fracture Numbness Nystagmus Our approach to Obesity Obsessive compulsive disorder Our approach to Obsessive–Compulsive Disorder in Children Obstetric anal sphincter injury Obstetrical pelvic floor trauma Obstructed megaureter Obstructed vagina Obstruction of pelviureteric junction Our approach to Obstructive Sleep Apnea Occipital neuralgia Occlusive vascular disease Occupational lung disease Ocular herpes Ocular/retinal trauma Olecranon bursitis Olecranon fractures Oligodendroglioma Oligomenorrhea Oligospermia Olivopontocerebellar degeneration Opportunistic infection Oppositional defiant disorder Opsoclonus myoclonus ataxia syndrome (omas) Optic atrophy Optic glioma Optic nerve edema Optic neuritis Optic neuropathy Orbit tumor Orbital fracture Orbital pseudotumor Orbital tumor Orchiectomy Organizational skills Oropharyngeal cancer Our approach to Oropharyngeal Cancer Orthopedic implant failure Orthostatic hypotension Osgood-schlatter disease Osteitis pubis Osteoarthritis of spine Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Spine Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Hip Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Knee Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Shoulder Osteochondritis dissecans Osteoid osteoma Our approach to Osteonecrosis Osteopenia Osteoporosis & low bone mass Our approach to Osteoporosis & Low Bone Mass Otosclerosis Our approach to Ovarian Cancer Ovarian cyst Ovarian failure Ovarian insufficiency Ovarian tumor Overactive bladder Pain in lumbar spine Pain in the arms Pain in the ear Pain trigger point Painful leg and moving toes syndrome Pancoast tumor Our approach to Pancreatic Cancer Pancreatic cyst Pancreatic disease Pancreatic mass Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor Pancreatic stone Pancreatic tumor Our approach to Pancreatitis Pancytopenia Panic disorder Panniculitis Papillary thyroid cancer Papilledema Paradoxical vocal fold movement (pvfm) Paraesophageal hernia Paraganglioma Paranasal sinus disease Paraneoplastic neurological syndrome Parasitic disease Parasomnia Parathyroid adenoma Parathyroid disease Our approach to Thyroid Nodules & Cancers Parkinsonism Parkinson's disease Our approach to Parkinson’s Disease Parotid disease Parotid tumor Patella fractures Our approach to Patella Fractures Patent ductus arteriosus Pectus carinatum Pectus excavatum Pelvic congestion syndrome Pelvic infection Pelvic inflammation Pelvic ligament injury Pelvic mass Our approach to Pelvic Organ Prolapse Our approach to Pelvic Pain Pemphigus Penile adhesions, skin bridges Penile curvature Penile prosthesis Peptic ulcer disease Pericardial disease Pericardial effusion Perimenopause Perinatal depression in mother Periodic fever syndrome Periodic limb movement disorder Peripheral nerve injury Peripheral nervous system tumor Peripheral neuropathy Our approach to Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral vascular disease Peritoneal cancer Personality disorder Pervasive developmental disorder Pessary problems Petit mal seizure Peyronie's disease Phantom limb pain Pharyngeal tumor Pheochromocytoma Phimosis Phobia Our approach to Anxiety Disorders in Children Photosensitivity Physiological shock Pigmentation disorder Pilar cyst Pilocytic astrocytoma Pilonidal cyst Pineal tumor Piriformis syndrome Pituitary adenoma Pituitary apoplexy Pituitary disorder Our approach to Pituitary Tumors Plagiocephaly Our approach to Plantar Fasciitis Plantar pain Platelet disorder Pleomorphic adenoma Pleural disease Pleural effusion Plexiform neurofibroma Pneumothorax Polycystic kidney disease Polycystic ovary syndrome Our approach to Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Polycythemia vera Polygenic hypercholesterolemia Polymyalgia rheumatica Polymyositis Polyneuropathy Pompe disease Popliteal entrapment syndrome Portal hypertension Portal vein thrombosis Post concussion syndrome Post thoracotomy pain Post-mastectomy lymphedema Post-mastectomy pain Post-polio syndrome Post-traumatic headache Our approach to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Posterior cortical atrophy Posterior tibial tendon dysfunction Posterior urethral valves/anterior urethral valves Postherpetic neuralgia Postmenopausal bleeding Postnasal drip Postpartum depression Postpartum incontinence Postpartum thyroiditis Postprandial distress syndrome Pouch failure Pouchitis Prader-willi syndrome Preauricular pit Precocious puberty Prediabetes Our approach to Pregnancy Pregnancy induced diabetes Preleukemia Premature birth Premature menopause Premenopause Premenstrual dysphoric disorder Prenatal hydronephrosis Presbyopia Pressure injury Our approach to Preterm Labor Primary aldosteronism Primary amenorrhea Primary biliary cholangitis (pbc) Primary ciliary dyskinesia Primary exertional headache Primary hypogonadism Primary sclerosing cholangitis Primary stabbing headache Primitive neuroectodermal tumor (pnet) Prion disease Proctitis Progressive supranuclear palsy Prolactin disorder Prolactinoma Pronator syndrome Prostate cancer screening Prostate diseases Prostate inflammation Prostate problems Prosthesis Pseudoachondroplasia Pseudofolliculitis barbae Pseudogout Pseudotumor cerebri Our approach to Psoriasis Our approach to Psoriatic Arthritis Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures Pterygium Ptosis Our approach to Ptosis Pudendal nerve injury Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis Pulmonary atresia Our approach to Pulmonary Embolism Pulmonary hypertension Congenital Heart Defects in Children Hypertension in Children Pulmonary sling Pulmonary stenosis Pulmonary valve regurgitation Pulmonary vein stenosis Pyelectasis Pyloric stenosis Quadriceps tendinitis Radial tunnel syndrome Radiation fibrosis Radiation injury Radiation injury specific to the jaw Radicular pain Radiculitis Radiofrequency ablation Ranula Rapid heartbeat Raynaud's disease Reactive arthritis Rectal bleeding Rectourethral fistula Rectovaginal fistula Recurrent hernia Recurrent infection Our approach to Recurrent Miscarriage Recurrent pregnancy loss Recurrent prostate cancer Recurrent urinary tract infection Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome Refractive error Our approach to Refractive Error Relapsing polychondritis Relationship problems Rem sleep behavior disorder Renal aml Renal artery stenosis Our approach to Renal Artery Stenosis Renal cell carcinoma Our approach to Kidney Cancer Renal mass Renal tubular disorder Our approach to Renal Tubular Disorders in Children Renal vascular disorder Respiratory papilloma Respiratory tract disease Respiratory tract infection Restless leg syndrome Restrictive lung disease Retinal artery occlusion Retinal detachment Our approach to Retinal Detachment Retinal drug toxicity Retinal tear Retinal vasculitis Retinal vein occlusion Retinitis pigmentosa Our approach to Retinoblastoma in Children Retinopathy Retroperitoneal sarcoma Rett syndrome Rhabdomyosarcoma Rheumatic heart disease Rheumatism Our approach to Rheumatoid Arthritis Rhinitis Rhinosinusitis Rickets Rolandic epilepsy Rosacea Our approach to Rosacea Rotator cuff syndrome Sacroiliac joint pain Sacroiliac sprain Sacroiliitis Salivary adenocarcinoma Salivary gland disease Salivary gland tumor Salivary stone Salmonella infection Our approach to Sarcoidosis Sarcoidosis arthritis Scaphoid fracture Scaphoid nonunion fracture Scar Scars & keloids Our approach to Scars & Keloids Schatzki ring Our approach to Schizophrenia School refusal Schwannoma (growth) of head or neck Sciatica Scleroderma Scleroderma esophagus Scoliosis & kyphosis Our approach to Scoliosis & Kyphosis Scoliosis in children Seborrheic dermatitis Secondary amenorrhea Secondary liver cancer Seizure Selective mutism Sensorineural hearing loss Separation anxiety Sepsis Our approach to Sepsis in Children Septic arthritis Septic shock Sesamoiditis Severe and complex trauma of an upper extremity Sexual health Sexually transmitted disease Sharp nerve pain Shift work sleep disorder Shingles Short bowel syndrome Short stature Shoulder & elbow fractures Our approach to Shoulder & Elbow Fractures Shoulder bursitis Our approach to Shoulder Dislocation Shoulder impingement syndrome Shoulder injury Shoulder labral tear Our approach to Shoulder Labral Tears Shoulder pain Shoulder slap tear Shoulder sprains & strains Our approach to Shoulder Sprains & Strains Shoulder tendinitis Shy-drager syndrome Sicca syndrome Sickle cell anemia Our approach to Sickle Cell Disease in Children Sickle cell retinopathy Sigmoid tumor Silent thyroiditis Single ventricle Sinus infection Situs ambiguus Sixth nerve palsy Sjögren's syndrome Our approach to Sjogren's Syndrome Skeletal dysplasia Skene's glands cyst Skin cancer Basal & Squamous Cell Skin Cancers Skin cancer of head or neck Skin disease Skin lesion Skull abnormality Skull base tumor Our approach to Skull Base Tumors Sleep arousal disorder Sleep deprivation Sleep disorder Sleep related movement disorder Sleep start Sleeplessness Sleepwalking Slipped capital femoral epiphysis Small bowel obstruction Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (sibo) Small intestinal dysmotility Small intestine disease Small intestine tumor Small mass of the lung Smell disorder Snoring Social anxiety disorder Soft tissue mass Soft tissue sarcoma in adults Our approach to Soft Tissue Sarcoma Soft tissue sarcoma of head or neck Solid tumor Solitary fibrous tumor Spasmodic torticollis Spasticity Speech disorder Speech impairment Spermatocele Spider vein Spigelian hernia Spinal arthritis Spinal cord compression Spinal cord disease Spinal cord injury Spinal cord tumor Spinal deformity Spinal injury Spinal muscular atrophy Spinal neurofibromas Our approach to Spinal Stenosis Spinal stenosis of thoracic region Spindle cell sarcoma Spine compression fractures Our approach to Spine Compression Fractures Spine fracture Spine infection Spine metastases Spine pain Spinocerebellar ataxia Spleen cyst Spleen disorder Spleen injury Spleen mass Spondyloarthropathy Our approach to Spondylolisthesis Our approach to Spondylolysis Spondylosis Sports concussion Sports hernia Sports injury Sprain Sprained finger Squamous cell cancer of head or neck Staghorn calculus Staphylococcal infections Our approach to Staphylococcal Infections Stargardt disease Status epilepticus Steatohepatitis Stereotypic movement disorder Stiff person syndrome Our approach to Stomach Cancer Stomach disease Stomach polyp Stomach tumor Stomach ulcer Strep throat Stress Our approach to Stress Fractures Striato-nigral degeneration Our approach to Stridor Our approach to Stroke Structural disorder of heart Sturge weber syndrome Stye Our approach to Stye Subacromial bursitis Subacute thyroiditis Subaortic stenosis Subarachnoid hemorrhage Subdural bleeding Submandibular gland tumor Sudden deafness Sudden loss of vision Supraglottic cancer Our approach to Supraventricular Arrhythmias Swallowing aspiration Swallowing difficulty Our approach to Congenital Airway Abnormalities Swelling lymph nodes Swimmer's ear Swollen leg Synovial cyst Synovial sarcoma Syringomyelia Syrinx Our approach to Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Tailbone fracture Tardive dyskinesia Tarsal coalition Temporal arteritis Temporary vision loss Temporomandibular disorders Temporomandibular joint pain Tendon injury Tendon rupture Tension headache Our approach to Testicular Cancer Testicular inflammation Testosterone disorder Tethered cord syndrome Tethered spinal cord/ lipomeningocele Tetralogy of fallot Tetralogy of Fallot in Children Tfcc tears Thalassemia Thigh pain Third nerve palsy Thoracic aortic aneurysm Thoracic cancer Thoracic disc prolapse Thoracic disease Thoracic insufficiency syndrome Our approach to Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Thoracoabdominal aneurysm Thrombocytopenia Thromboembolism Thrombosis Thumb cmc/basal joint arthiritis Thymoma Thymus cancer Thyroglossal duct cyst Thyroid cancer Thyroid Nodules & Cancers Thyroid cancer lymphoma Thyroid disorder Graves’ Disease in Children Thyroid eye disease Thyroid mass Thyroid nodule Thyroid tumor Thyroiditis Tibial torsion Tic disorder Tingling Our approach to Tinnitus Tnf receptor-associated periodic fever syndrome Toeing-in Tongue cancer Tongue tie Tongue tumor Tonsil cancer Tonsil hypertrophy Tonsil stones Tonsillitis Torn rotator cuff Our approach to Torn Rotator Cuff Tourette disorder Our approach to Tourette Disorder Tracheal cancer Tracheal damage Tracheal stenosis Stridor in Children Transient ischemic attack Transitional cell carcinoma Transposition of great vessels Transverse myelitis Traumatic fracture Traumatic stress disorder Our approach to Traumatic Stress in Children Travel-related infections Our approach to Travel-Related Infections Tremor (any type) Triangular fibrocartilaginous complex tear Triceps injuries Triceps tendinitis Triceps tendon rupture Trichiasis Trichotillomania Tricuspid atresia Tricuspid valve disease Tricuspid valve insufficiency Our approach to Trigeminal Neuralgia Trigger finger Trophoblastic disease Truncus arteriosus Our approach to Tuberculosis Tuberous sclerosis Tumor of throat or palate Turner syndrome Type 1 diabetes mellitus Our approach to Type 2 Diabetes Ulcer disease, gastrointestinal Our approach to Ulcerative Colitis in Children Ulnar collateral ligament tear Our approach to Ulnar Nerve Compression Umbilical hernia Undescended testicle Our approach to Undescended Testicles in Children Unexplained visual loss Unspecified brain disease Upper airway resistance syndrome Upper tract urothelial cancer Ureter cancer Ureteral fistula Ureteral obstruction Ureteral stenosis Our approach to Ureteral Stricture Ureteral vaginal fistula Ureterocele Ureteropelvic junction (upj) obstruction Urethral cancer Urethral diverticulectomy Urethral fistula Urethral prolapse Urethral stricture Our approach to Urethral Stricture Urgency and frequency of urination Urinary diversion Urinary tract cancer Our approach to Urinary Tract Infections Urinary tract obstruction: prenatal and postnatal Urolithiasis Urothelial cancer Uterine cancer Uterine sarcoma Uveitis Vaginal abnormalities Vaginal adhesions Vaginal atrophy Vaginal birth after cesarean Our approach to Vaginal Birth After Cesarean Vaginal bleeding Our approach to Vaginal Cancer Vaginal cyst Vaginal infection Vaginal problems Vaginal septum Vaginitis Valvular heart disease Varices, gastrointestinal Varicocele Our approach to Varicose Veins Vascular anomalies Vascular disease Vascular lesions Vascular malformations in the torso & limbs Our approach to Vascular Malformations in the Torso & Limbs Vascular/venous malformation of head or neck Vascular, bony, and soft tissue injuries to the upper extremities Our approach to Vasculitis Velopharyngeal insufficiency Veno-occlusive disease Venous disease Venous insufficiency Venous malformation Ventral hernia Our approach to Ventricular Arrhythmias Ventricular septal defect Ventricular tachycardia Vertebral foraminal stenosis Vertical talus Our approach to Vertigo Vesicoureteral reflux Vesicovaginal fistula Vestibular diseases Vestibular migraine Vestibular neuritis Vexas syndrome Viral infection Visual field defect Vitamin b12 deficiency Vitamin d deficiency Vitiligo Our approach to Vitiligo Vitreomacular traction Vocal cord cancer Vocal cord cyst or nodule Vocal cord inflammation Vocal cord papilloma / laryngeal papilloma Vocal cord paralysis Vocal cord polyp Vocal fatigue Voice changes Voice disorder Voice loss Von hippel landau with neurological involvement Von willebrand disease Vulvar disease Vulvodynia Wart Watery eye Weakness Weight loss Whiplash White blood cell disorders Our approach to Wilms Tumor in Children Wilson's disease Winged scapula Wolfram syndrome Wrinkles and fine lines Wrist & hand repetitive use injuries Our approach to Wrist & Hand Repetitive Use Injuries Wrist arthritis Wrist bursitis Wrist fracture Wrist injury Wrist pain Wrist sprain Wrist tendinitis Wry neck Y Yeast infection Z Zenker's diverticulum Zollinger-ellison syndrome (zes) Jump to conditions starting with: Has conditions beginning with this letter. No conditions beginning with this letter. The NYU Langone Health app puts the highest-quality care in your hands, making the entire experience of accessing your medical records, scheduling appointments, and contacting your care team seamless. With the app, it’s easier and faster to manage care for you and your family. It keeps all of your health information in one place, and you can quickly connect with your care team. Download the NYU Langone Health app on the Simply log in with your —creating one takes just minutes—and you’ll have the expertise of NYU Langone’s specialists in your pocket, whenever you need them. If you don’t yet have a MyChart account, you can Your Convenient Care Connection When it comes to your health, having the right support makes all the difference. With the NYU Langone Health app, everything you need for a smooth and successful care journey is just a tap away. From the home screen, it’s simple to: schedule or change your appointments view your test results and clinical notes message with your care team see your medications Plus, the app gives you convenient tools to: see your full electronic health record manage bill payments manage care for others share information with other providers These tools are easy to find and use, deliver important updates as soon as possible, and keep you informed and ready for what’s next. Need to make an NYU Langone Health appointment? Whether you’re seeing a new doctor or coming for a check-up with your current provider, the app’s scheduling feature makes it simple to pick the date and time that works for you. VIDEO: Learn how to use the app to schedule an appointment with an NYU Langone provider. Find a Doctor Through the App With the NYU Langone Health app, finding the right doctor is easier than ever. You can conveniently search more than 4,000 providers by specialty, location, and insurance coverage, and in just a few taps select the best match for your needs. VIDEO: You can use the NYU Langone Health app to easily find a primary care doctor, specialist, or other healthcare provider. Support at Every Step The NYU Langone Health app ensures that you get the most helpful guidance throughout your care experience. You’ll receive ongoing personalized assistance, including videos and instructions to help you prepare and recover, important tasks and key reminders to stay on track, and more. You’ll know what to expect, stress less, and have help by your side. From testing and diagnosis through treatment and recovery, you’ll know what to expect, stress less, and always have help by your side. VIDEO: The NYU Langone Health app helps you manage your care with useful tools at every step of the way. Virtual Urgent Care: Skip the Waiting Room Sore throat? UTI? Mystery rash? Child running a fever? Same-day treatment for many non-emergency conditions is now available with a video visit. You’ll be connected with an NYU Langone Health provider for a convenient consultation using your mobile device, to receive a diagnosis, guidance on treatment, and follow-up instructions. It’s an invaluable option that’s easy to access whenever you need—right in your app. VIDEO: When you need same-day care for a non-emergency condition, NYU Langone’s Virtual Urgent Care has you covered. Shared Access: Simple and Secure If you’d like to share your MyChart medical information with a loved one—or receive access to your child’s health record—the app makes it simple. With the Friends and Family Access feature, you can decide whether to give each person full or limited access. You can also request your children’s health records if they’re 11 years old or younger. At age 12, your children can easily grant you access. Plus, the app lets you temporarily share your medical information with any healthcare providers who need it. You always have control over your private information, how much you share, and who sees it. Stay In the Know, On the Go With the NYU Langone Health app, you’re connected to everything you need, anywhere you are. It’s the most convenient way to manage your care, be in touch with your care team, feel prepared at every step, and stay well-supported throughout your health journey. Apps 1138548_RR00100829 Program Coordinator – MedTech Venture Prototyping (MVP) Fund Job ID: 1138548_RR00100829 Shift: 9am-5pm TOV – Operations (S324) The Program Coordinator position is part of the NYU Langone Health and New York University’s Technology, Opportunities & Ventures (TOV) team. TOV is dedicated to accelerating the commercialization of breakthrough innovations in healthcare by translating cutting-edge research into real-world applications. TOV supports the development of novel technologies across a wide range of areas, including medical devices, digital health, diagnostics, and therapeutics. The ideal candidate is highly organized and experienced with strong project management skills and excellent communication abilities to ensure the successful execution of these initiatives. The Program Coordinator will play a key role in overseeing the operational aspects of the NYULH MedTech Venture Prototyping (MVP) Fund, helping to advance MedTech innovations from concept through prototyping, testing, and validation. The ideal candidate will be highly organized, skilled in project management, and able to handle multiple projects simultaneously, ensuring they are completed on time and within scope. Strong written and verbal communication skills are essential to collaborate effectively with cross-functional teams, stakeholders, and external partners. Program Coordination & Administration: Oversee planning coordination and execution of internally awarded projects with internal and external stakeholders Organize and manage all project activities from initiation to completion ensuring timely delivery and alignment with project goals Develop and manage detailed project schedules track milestones and ensure efficient execution Handle purchase requisitions reimbursements expense reports and invoice payments in accordance with project budgets and NYULH policies Collaborate with TOV internal teams to establish project budgets before any work begins ensuring that financial requirements are met Track project spending throughout the lifecycle ensuring adherence to approved budgets and timelines Regular budget status updates identify potential overruns and implement corrective actions as needed Continuously assess and recommend improvements to program workflows and budgeting processes to optimize efficiency and reduce cycle times Work with the TOV team to streamline processes and implement best practices to improve overall program performance Proposal & Award Management: Support outreach to the NYULH research and clinical community to solicit project proposals for MVP funding Assist in the review evaluation and selection of funded proposals Manage documentation and paperwork for internal and external grants ensuring compliance with submission guidelines Provide operational support for new MedTech programs including digital health innovation accelerators and MedTech incubation programs Collaborate with internal teams stakeholders and external partners to ensure smooth project setup and execution Monitor project progress ensuring timelines milestones and deliverables are met Identify potential issues early and collaborate with stakeholders to resolve them ensuring projects remain on track and within scope Prepare and review status/progress reports presentations and formal correspondence for ongoing projects Summarize key findings metrics and deviations from the plan in clear comprehensive reports Respond to routine inquiries escalate non routine matters and ensure compliance with relevant policies and procedures CRO Management & Contracting: Identify engage and work with Contract Research Organizations CROs to obtain quotes and support MVP projects Participate in the assessment selection and contracting of CROs Monitor CRO performance review deliverables and ensure adherence to project specifications Facilitate the close out of contracts with CROs at project completion NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements The salary range for the role is 58 000 64 000 annually Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors including experience specialty education and business need The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits Bachelor’s degree or equivalent in business administration, health care administration or related field or an equivalent combination of education and relevant experience. Proficiency in using various Microsoft Office applications such as Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint and Outlook. Familiar with Internet applications. Effective oral, written, communication, interpersonal skills. Ability to interface effectively with all levels of management and must work and communicate effectively with both internal and external customers. Ability to work within a team environment as well as independently. Time management skills and ability to work well under pressure. Ability to Project/Program manage and to multi task while paying attention to details. referred Qualifications: MS, PhD or comparable degree in a relevant field of sciences required. Two or more years of experience in research or R&D in the medtech field. Experience in participation and project management in R&D collaborations. Excellent organizational and communication skills (written and verbal). Strong inter-personal skills and ability to work on collaborative projects. Intellectual curiosity and ability to rapidly acquire an understanding across multiple biomedical disciplines. Energetic, self-starter and strong problem solving skills. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $64,350 – $64,350 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1129962_RR00092837 Job ID: 1129962_RR00092837 Shift: 7PM – 8AM, 3 days a week (variable) Department: Polysomnography, NYU Comprehensive Epilepsy (H1755) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Sleep Technologist II. In this role, the successful candidate Using general supervision of the Director, will show significant expertise in performing all aspects of Polysomnography for both clinical and research patients. At this level, the technologist should be familiar with commonly used drugs to manage sleep disorders. Recognize interactions which could have an adverse effect on the patient and bring this information to the appropriate M.D. or Ph.D. Have a good working knowledge of sleep hygiene techniques in order to augment and re-enforce recommendations made at the initial consultation. Recognize and diagnose apneas when performing NPSG. On an appointment basis, technologist will perform mask fittings in order to optimize patient satisfaction with the CPAP machine. Technologist will write and adapt protocols as needed, score, train staff on new equipment, and transfer data to the optical disk storage system Gather and Analyze Patient Information – Collect, analyze, and integrate patient information in order to identify and meet the patient-specific needs (physical/mental limitations, current emotional/physiological status regarding the testing procedure, pertinent medical/social history), and to determine final testing parameters/procedures in conjunction with the ordering physician or clinical director and laboratory protocols. Complete and verify documentation. Explain pre-testing, testing, and post-testing procedures to the patient. Service Management and Professional Issues – Comply with applicable laws, regulations, guidelines and standards regarding safety and infection control issues. Perform routine and complex equipment care and maintenance. Evaluate sleep study related equipment and inventory. Maintain current CPR or BCLS certification. Demonstrate effective written and spoken communication skills. Demonstrate appropriate social skills. Respond to study participants procedural-related inquiries by providing appropriate information. Demonstrate the ability to analyze complex situations and apply policy. Comply with the BRPT Standards of Conduct. Polysomnographic Record Scoring – Score sleep/wake stages by applying professionally accepted guidelines. Score clinical events (such as respiratory events, cardiac events, limb movements, arousals etc.) according to center specific protocols. Generate accurate reports by tabulating sleep/wake and clinical event data. Polysomnographic Procedures – Document routine observations including sleep stages and clinical events, changes in procedure, and significant events in order to facilitate scoring and interpretation of polysomnographic results. Implement appropriate interventions (including actions necessary for patient safety and therapeutic intervention such as continuous and bi-level positive airway pressure, oxygen administration, etc.). Follow lights on procedures to verify integrity of collected data and complete the data collection process (repeats the physiological and instrument calibrations and instructs the patient on completing questionnaires, etc.). Demonstrate the knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and provide age specific care in the treatment, assessment, and education of neonatal, pediatric, adolescent, adult, and geriatric patients. Oversees and performs difficult and unusual procedures and therapeutic interventions. Polysomnographic Procedures – Follow procedural protocols [such as Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT), Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT), parasomnia studies, PAP, oxygen titration etc.] to ensure collection of appropriate data. Follow lights out procedures to establish and document baseline values (such as body position, oxyhemoglobin saturation, respiratory and heart rates, etc.). Perform Polysomnographic data acquisition while monitoring study-tracing quality to ensure signals are artifact-free and make adjustments, if necessary. Testing Preparation Procedures – Prepare and calibrate equipment required for testing to determine proper functioning and make adjustments if necessary. Apply electrodes and sensors according to accepted published standards. Perform appropriate physiologic calibrations to ensure proper signals and make adjustments if necessary. Perform positive airway pressure (PAP) mask fitting. To qualify you must have a (1) NYS OP License and current registration as a Polysomnographic Technologist, OR, (2) NYS OP License and current registration as a Registered Respiratory Therapy competent to perform Polysomnographic Technology services. 5 years experience in field of Polysomnography None NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $89,273.58 – $90,313.57 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. You can help give the gift of life by choosing to become an organ or tissue donor. One organ donor can help save up to eight lives, and one tissue donation can save or improve the lives of more than 75 people. The decision to become an organ or tissue donor does not interfere with the healthcare you receive—saving your life is your NYU Langone doctor’s first priority. VIDEO: More than 8,000 people in the New York City metro area are currently on the organ transplant waitlist. Our Transplant Institute is committed to helping those in need of a new heart, liver, kidney, or lungs. All people can be considered as potential organ, tissue, and eye donors at the time of death. Organs and tissues are distributed through federally or state-authorized organ and tissue banks, and donating your organs does not cost your family any money. Enroll Online Donate Life national registry is a confidential, online database that records a person’s own legal consent to organ, tissue, and eye donation upon his or her death. If you live in New York State, More Information about Organ and Tissue Donation LiveOnNY , a nonprofit organization dedicated to the recovery of organs and tissue for transplant in the greater New York metropolitan area, offers resources to learn more about donation. For information about organ transplantation at NYU Langone, learn more about our 1137701_RR00100405 Job ID: 1137701_RR00100405 Position Type: Part-Time Shift: 09:30 AM – 02:00 PM, Monday – Friday Department: Rehabilitation Therapy, NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Physical Therapy – LI (W6147) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Rehabilitation Aide, Physical Therapy / Hospital. In this role, the successful candidate works as part of a team and under the direction of a supervising therapist to assist the professional staff at bedside or in the department in providing direct patient care that meets departmental patient care objectives and needs. Maintains the department and equipment in a clean and orderly state.. Assists with executing limited direct patient care duties related to Physical and/or Occupational Therapy as directed by the supervising therapist Participates in maintaining the cleanliness of the department and adequate levels of departmental supplies Promotes and maintains patient safety via appropriate and safe guarding techniques proper body mechanics and equipment inspection Assists the supervising therapist with patient set up and preparation for treatment To qualify, you must have a High School or GED. Excellent communication both oral and written skills Current and valid BLS or CPR certification from the American Heart Association. 1 – 2 years Hospital Inpatient or Orthopedic Outpatient Rehabilitation setting NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $23.16 – $25.20 Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138441_RR00100684 Physical Therapist I – Brooklyn Job ID: 1138441_RR00100684 Shift: Tuesday-Saturday 10AM-6PM Rehab PT and OT (L177476) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physical Therapist I – Brooklyn. In this role, the successful candidate Responsible for evaluating physical therapy needs and implementing comprehensive medically prescribed physical therapy treatment to assigned patients in a supervises program of rehabilitation OTHER: Maintains a professional appearance and demonstrates appropriate professionalism during job performance Performs other duties as assigned ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION: Initial Assessment and Evaluation of Physical Therapy needs for specifically assigned patient populations Reviews medical chart to ascertain important medical information and clarifies referral/Treatment orders if necessary for unfamiliar diagnosis Selects appropriate assessment tools and methods in order to accurately determine the patient s status for developing optimal treatment plan Demonstrates effective clinical decision making and implements changes/adaptations to the Treatment Plan when appropriate DOCUMENTATION: Completes all required documentation for patient care and reimbursement Completes and plans all required documentation in medical chart as required by Department guidelines and JACHO/CARF requirements Clinical Documentation is through and completes using appropriate medical and clinical terminology Accurately records all treatment given including completion of the daily treatment record EDUCATION AND SUPERVISION: Participates in Clinical Education of Fieldwork students and other professional educational endeavors Teaches and supervises assigned students in the appropriate techniques skills and procedures Demonstrates a genuine interest in assisting students in enhancing their knowledge and skill levels Encourages positive learning experiences for Career Opportunity Students and other Non Fieldwork students PATIENT PROGRESS: Evaluates patient s progress and response to therapy and modifies treatment intervention as needed INTERVENTIONS: Implements Treatment Plans and Protocol according to current professional and health system standards Establishes achievable and appropriate treatment goals with patient and family Considers a variety of validated treatment approaches and rationales for achievement of patient goals Selects appropriate technical aids/assistive devices and correctly refers patients to other clinical services to achieve stated program/team treatment goals Assesses educational needs of patient families and implements a variety of methods for patient/family education and training during rehabilitation process To qualify you must have a Bachelor s Degree in Physical Therapy New York State Physical Therapy License or temporary permit Good communication and interpersonal skills 0 1 years experience as a Physical Therapist New York State License in Physical Therapy CPR certification. Phys Thrpst Temp Permit-NYS, Phys Thrpst License-NYS Master s Degree in Physical Therapy or related field Language skills in addition to English preferred Computer data entry skills 1138605_RR00100820 Job ID: 1138605_RR00100820 We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Nursing Attendant-Central Nursing Service-Flex Shift (37.5 Hours) Assists with Admission/Transfer/Discharge of patients: Orients patient to hospital environment. Provides patient with toileting supplies. Assists patient to remove clothes, complete property check list and safeguard personal property through Security. Assists in transfer of patients by gathering belongings, completion of clothing list and assisting in moving the patient. Prepares bedside unit to receive patients. Discharges: Assists patient to dress and pack personal belongings. Escorts patient as necessary and remains with the patient until he/she has left the building. Conducts patient rounds for toileting, positioning, comfort, safety and personal needs. Answers patient call lights and responds to patient needs promptly. Assemble O2 (e.g., nasal cannula) and suction set-ups. Provides basic hygiene to patients: bathing, AM/PM care, mouth care, denture care, hair care, nail and foot care, shaving, assists patients with bedpan, urinal and/or commode. Prepares patients for meals including: Clearing overbed tables and placing them within reach of the patient. Positioning patient correctly for eating/tube feedings. Assisting patients by preparing utensils and food items. Feeding patients. Performs and/or assist patient with simple treatments. Remove and reapply SCD wraps as directed by the RN. Assists RN in enema procedures. Collects specimens as directed by RN. Informs RN of any audible clinical alarms such as IV pumps, feeding pumps, ventilators, bedside monitors Assists with moving, lifting, positioning and transporting of patients. Assists with removal and security of patient personal items prior to procedures, as needed. Changes linen in accordance with policy and as necessary. Takes and electronically records blood pressure, temperature, pulse, pulse oximetry, and respiration per care level standard and as directed by the RN. Reports abnormalities to RN. Weighs patients and electronically records on admission, as ordered, and/or as directed by RN. Measures and records oral intake, urinary output, bowel elimination, gastric and other drainage onto I&O record (form or electronic). Calculates 8 hour totals. Empties drainage bags. Performs post mortem care. Performs safety observations for patients on continuous observation or in restraints, per policy and as directed. Reports any changes observed in the patients condition to the RN. Responds to and meets patient/family needs and customer concerns as soon as possible with compassion and understanding. Established effective, caring relationships with staff, patients, family and other members of the health care team. Maintains competence through in-service and educational programs. Attends staff meetings and reviews/signs minutes of meetings not attended.Maintains a safe and uncluttered environment of care in patient rooms including removing excessive furniture, supplies and equipment. Assists with supply and equipment management of patient, procedure and supply rooms per department standards. Maintains cleanliness of utility rooms and pantries as assigned. Performs other duties such as errands, relieving other units, bringing stretchers and assisting other members of the health team, as directed. Performs other duties as aligned with the mission and values of the organization. To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or equivalent Required. Graduate of Certified Nursing Attendant program or minimum 6 months relevant experience. BLS or Heartsaver CPR/AED certification. (Issued by the American Heart Association-AHA) OR Heartsaver CPR/AED certification (Issued by the American Heart Association-AHA) is required upon entry to the position. Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal, reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; Strong customer service and communication skills.. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $48,102.66 – $50,901.02 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Visit Us View All Locations Inpatient Locations We offer world-class inpatient medical care delivered by a team focused on your health and wellbeing. We deliver the highest quality care in an environment designed with comfort, privacy, and safety in mind. We are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions and injuries that have an impact on the way your body moves. We partner with children and families to provide the most advanced care for children in the New York City area. We are the hospital of choice for adults and children seeking expert inpatient and outpatient care in Brooklyn. We provide the highest level of inpatient and outpatient care throughout our network of Long Island healthcare facilities. Outpatient Locations From the most advanced treatments to access to clinical trials, we offer the latest in cancer care and support. Our experts provide treatments that help increase your mobility, relieve pain, and improve your quality of life. We provide comprehensive, compassionate outpatient care for a wide range of pediatric conditions. We offer an array of primary and specialty care to address your health concerns at one convenient location. We offer personalized healthcare at one convenient location. Our location houses a variety of doctors’ offices and outpatient services. We offer a comprehensive array of primary and specialty care—all in one convenient location. Located near New York City’s Theatre District, we provide the west side of Manhattan with specialty medical care. High-quality, affordable healthcare is available at our community- and school-based locations. View Full Locations Directory You can see a doctor, schedule an appointment, access your medical records, and more using the NYU Langone Health app. Just log in with your MyChart username and password. Learn more about the Centralized Application Container Management Service Centralized Application Container Management Service Questionnaire PDX – Community Based Referral Platform NYU Langone invites you (Vendor) to submit a quote in accordance with the requirements, terms, and conditions in this RFP for available community based referral platform solutions designed to support real time visibility into referral activity and specific case outcomes that are bidirectional between NYU Langone and the CBO, with integration to Epic. This RFP process is your opportunity to demonstrate your strong commitment to partnering with NYU Langone and ensures highly competitive pricing with quality customer support services. This RFP solicits a detailed offering that includes line item pricing as well as a detailed response regarding your corporate profile, services, capabilities, and contract/payment terms compliance. We encourage you to submit a quote that is aggressively priced which will exceed our expectations and influence the consolidation of our Vendors and market share. Additional Questions Due : October 23, 2023, 5:00pm NYULH Answers to Questions Due : October 26, 2023, 5:00pm Proposal Due : November 10, 2023, 5:00pm All Proposals are due by November 10, 2023 no later than 5:00 P.M. EST. Send your complete electronic response via email to: ITSourcing@nyulangone.org with the subject line “PDX - Community Based Referral Platform RFP” Interested parties who need additional information or have questions about this RFP must be submitted via email to on or before 5 PM (EST) on October 23, 2023 with the subject line “NYU Langone Community Based Referral Platform RFP QUESTIONS.” All questions and responses will be shared with all vendors on November 10, 2023. There are no Requests for Quotes at this time. Please check back soon. Schedule a video visit online or call your doctor’s office during business hours. For help finding a doctor, call our physician referral service at You don’t always need to come in to the doctor’s office to see your doctor. Many NYU Langone doctors and care providers offer video visits, letting you video chat with your doctor from home or wherever is convenient for you. Video visits are available for adults and for children of all ages, and are available to new patients in addition to those who already have an NYU Langone doctor. How to Schedule a Video Visit To schedule a video visit instead of an in-office visit, you can find a doctor and schedule online , or log into your and select a member of your care team to schedule. You can also schedule a video visit by calling your doctor’s office during business hours. Video visits are subject to regulations that vary by state. When scheduling a video visit, you must see a provider who is licensed in the state that you will be in during the time of your visit. Most of our physicians are licensed in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Florida. Our office will contact you ahead of your visit, or you can call us at , to confirm we can complete your visit. Schedule a video visit or an in-person appointment, access your medical records, and more by logging into the app with your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. What to Expect During a Video Visit A video visit is similar to an in-office visit, but instead of traveling to see your doctor, you can video chat with them from home, work, or another convenient location. Our care providers can assess symptoms, make a diagnosis, recommend treatment, and send prescriptions to your pharmacy. Video visits take place through your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. If you are a patient at NYU Langone and do not have a MyChart account, you can VIDEO: Learn what to expect during your video visit and how to access your visit using the NYU Langone Health mobile app. When it’s time for your video visit, you can join the appointment by logging into your NYU Langone Health MyChart account using the app, up to 10 minutes before your scheduled appointment time. Select the Appointments icon on the app’s home screen to access the video chat with your doctor. Types of Video Visit Appointments Our doctors and other healthcare providers offer video visits across a wide range of specialties. Some examples of appointments that can be held over video include new patient visits, follow-up visits, mental health visits, physical therapy visits occupational therapy visits speech–language pathology therapy visits , and postoperative appointments. VIDEO: Dr. Julie Han, a sports health expert, discusses how video visits allow her to connect with her patients and provide the same high level of care. Video visits cannot be used for appointments that require physical examinations, such as annual physicals or annual gynecological appointments. If you have questions about whether a video visit is right for you at this time, speak with your doctor’s office. Computer Requirements The NYU Langone Health mobile app is only available for mobile devices. If you would like to use a computer instead of a mobile device, please make sure it has a working web camera, microphone, speakers, and high-speed internet connection. Internet Explorer and Google Chrome web browsers are compatible with this service. If this is your or your child’s first video visit, please accept the download for the VidyoWeb plug-in when you start your visit. Cost and Insurance Options Many insurance providers now cover telemedicine services for adults and children. It is your responsibility to verify that you have specific benefit coverage for telemedicine services under your benefit plan. Your doctor’s office can help you to determine if a video visit is covered by your insurance provider, and we also recommend speaking with your insurance provider directly if you have questions. For plans we accept, we collect your out-of-pocket responsibility for an office visit at the time of check-in and bill your insurance for the remaining balance, as we would for an in-person appointment. If your insurance doesn’t cover the balance in full, you are billed for any remaining balance. Schedule appointments, access your medical records, and more by logging into the NYU Langone Health App with your MyChart account. Virtual Doctor Visits a Big Help for Breast Cancer Survivor Video Visits: A Convenient & ‘Good Experience’ for Patient Video Visits Help Woman Regain Wrist Movement After Surgery How Hospitals Are Responding to New Mental Health Trends Brain Surgery & Rehabilitation Save a 13-Year-Old’s Life Virtual Visit Was a ‘Pleasant Surprise’ for Lupus Patient The Neurologist Will See You Now, Virtually We have locations throughout the New York City area. Learn more about scheduling an appointment NYU Langone’s radiology experts provide high-quality, safe imaging services to more than 300,000 people each year in the New York City area. We have more than 230 board-certified radiologists who interpret imaging results for patients and referring physicians; 65 physicians-in-training; and more than 1,400 technologists, nurses, and physician assistants working together to meet the highest standard of care every day. Our experts have access to the most advanced imaging technologies available. Medical imaging is a specialized science that requires experience and expertise, with a focus on each individual patient. We ensure your safety by adhering to guidelines to protect you from unnecessary amounts of radiation. We make sure that you receive high-quality images by using state-of-the art equipment. And, our radiologists specialize in imaging specific types of patients or certain parts of the body, such as musculoskeletal, breast, and pediatric imaging. subspecialties of our physicians , our , and our training programs Refer a patient to NYU Langone for an imaging test. Accommodations for People with Disabilities We accommodate patients with disabilities, including but not limited to those who are blind, have low vision, or have other sensory impairments; those with physical disabilities; those who are deaf, deaf and blind, or hard of hearing; and those who have mental impairments. When scheduling an appointment, please let us know if you have a disability so that we can best serve you. Introducing the First Patient-Friendly Radiology Report Video Radiology Reports Valuable for Patient Understanding Fat Tissue Helps Screen for Invasive Breast Cancer Radiologists Playing Bigger Role in Medical Care Simultaneous PET/MRI Improves Accuracy for Bladder Cancer There are no Requests for Proposals at this time. Please check back soon. Explore a listing of some of the bid requests and proposals related to federal grants, including Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grants, that are open for bidding and response. Price-based sourcing selection for compliant bids from approved vendors or new vendors that need to include their qualifications. Best-value sourcing selection using evaluation criteria for approved vendors or new vendors that need to include qualifications. Public Notice Magnet Recognition Program® Site Visit NYU Langone Hospitals was designated as a Magnet organization in 2005, 2009, 2014, and 2019 by the ANCC Magnet Recognition Program®. This prestigious designation recognizes excellence in nursing services. In April 2024, NYU Langone Hospitals is applying for re-designation. Patients, family members, staff, and interested parties who would like to provide comments are encouraged to do so. Anyone may send comments via e-mail and direct mail. Your comments must be received by the Magnet Program Office by April 5, 2024. NOTE: All comments are CONFIDENTIAL and are not shared with the health care organization. Comments may be anonymous, but they must be sent in writing to the Magnet Program Office. AMERICAN NURSES CREDENTIALING CENTER (ANCC) MAGNET RECOGNITION PROGRAM OFFICE 8515 Georgia Ave., Suite 400 Silver Spring, MD 20910-3492 E-Mail: magnet@ana.org For information about a security incident experienced by one of our vendors, Change Healthcare, that impacted its customer data, please read their HIPAA Website Substitute Notice Where innovation meets individualized care. Find an Orthopedic Doctor When to See an Orthopedic Doctor Meet Our Orthopedic Doctors Our Areas of Expertise Pioneers in Orthopedic Treatment, Partners in Your Recovery At NYU Langone Orthopedics, we treat every bone, muscle, joint, tendon, and ligament, whether the diagnosis is a routine injury or complex condition. From medications to surgery, we use advanced approaches—many developed right here—that help you return to your everyday activities. In our orthopedic surgery program alone, we perform more than 34,000 procedures each year. Our locations across New York City, Westchester County, Long Island, New Jersey, and Florida make it easy to access care at NYU Langone, ranked among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics by Should you see someone for that dull ache or sharp pain in your joints, bones, or muscles? Learn When to See Us Patient Story “I feel 20 years younger,” says Steven Sandberg after his spine surgery. “Dr. Fischer did an amazing job.” Orthopedic Conditions We Treat from Head to Toe We draw from our own experiences with movement and injury to provide you with expert care. From common injuries to complex diagnoses, learn more about the orthopedic conditions we treat. Anterior Cruciate Ligament Tears Hand Sprains and Strains Hip and Pelvic Fractures Knee Sprains and Strains Shoulder and Elbow Fractures Wrist and Hand Repetitive Use Injuries View More Conditions We Treat Care for Children, Beyond Bones and Muscles , a part of , families are the focus of orthopedic care. We manage everyday injuries and complex conditions, while supporting your child’s social and emotional needs. Our doctors prioritize nonsurgical approaches whenever possible. When surgery is necessary, we use the most advanced techniques to ensure a rapid recovery and help your child return to an active life. Learn About Pediatric Orthopedic Care Number 3 in Orthopedics U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics. Cancer Treatment That Preserves Physical Function Our orthopedic surgeons work with the team at —musculoskeletal, medical, and radiation oncologists, specialized radiologists, and reconstructive surgeons—to care for the rarest of bone and soft tissue tumors. Together, we look beyond treatment to prioritize patients’ functional goals and quality of life. Learn About Bone and Soft Tissue Tumor Care Our Areas of Orthopedic Expertise Our orthopedic doctors offer an array of specialized services, programs, and centers to meet all your bone, joint, and muscle care needs. Foot and Ankle Care Orthopedic Trauma and Fracture Shoulder and Elbow Care View More Areas of Expertise View All Areas of Expertise Setting Standards for Rehabilitation Our physical and occupational therapy services are offered through Rusk Rehabilitation, which has a legacy of defining orthopedic rehabilitation standards. Learn About Rehabilitation Services We provide integrated and individualized cancer care for adults and children. Find a Cancer Doctor & Schedule 212-731-6000 Types of Cancer We Treat Pediatric Cancer Care Planning Your Visit Setting New Standards for Excellence in Cancer Care At NYU Langone, our providers offer you personalized, whole-patient cancer care. Whether we recommend tried-and-true approaches, newly approved therapies, or cutting-edge clinical trials, treatment is based on the best-available science and medicine. With locations across Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island, you don’t need to travel far for comprehensive cancer care. Our specialists seamlessly coordinate your treatment for cancer and beyond. From ongoing care for a preexisting condition to support for you and your family, we provide one standard of excellence. Patient-Centered Treatment Starts Here We’re one team—doctors, nurses, social workers, and other specialists—dedicated to your care and a healthy outcome. We’re Here for You at Every Step Cancer Prevention Cancer Screening Centers and Programs Survivorship High-Quality, Innovative Cancer Care Comprehensive, Research-Based Care Explore how Perlmutter Cancer Center’s National Cancer Institute Comprehensive Cancer Center designation ensures you receive research-based care for your unique needs. Innovative Technologies Learn how our doctors combine the latest treatments—such as advanced radiation therapy and targeted immune and cell therapies—with real-time imaging to monitor cancer response. Cutting-Edge Clinical Trials Discover Perlmutter Cancer Center’s extensive and rapidly growing number of clinical trials, which give you access to the most-advanced treatments. Support for You and Your Family Explore support services for you and your family members, friends, and other caregivers, who are a valued part of the care team. Cancer Care in Your Community View our locations throughout New York City and Long Island, where we make cancer care as convenient as possible. Integrated Care Across the Health System From a cancer diagnosis and treatment to inpatient and outpatient support services, access care in our one network, with one electronic health record, via MyChart. The Future of Cancer Care, Today As an NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, Perlmutter Cancer Center provides research-based approaches to cancer prevention, detection, and treatment. Our clinical trials are shaping the future of cancer care and improving access to state-of-the-art, personalized treatments. Designed to advance the science of cancer care, clinical trials offer a chance for a better outcome, especially for cancers that do not respond well to traditional therapies. By combining forward-thinking treatment strategies with the latest diagnostic tools, we monitor the cancer’s response and optimize your care. Why Choose Perlmutter Cancer Center NYU Langone’s Exceptional Approach to Every Cancer Type From cancer prevention through diagnosis, treatment, and beyond, our providers offer dedicated programs and services for each cancer type. We put your quality of life first and consistently deliver the best possible outcomes. Brain and Spine Tumor Center Breast Cancer Center Cancer Rehabilitation Center for Blood Cancers CyberKnife Center High-Risk Cancer Genetics Program Lung Cancer Center Melanoma Services Prostate Cancer Center Survivorship Program Thyroid Program View More Areas of Cancer Expertise View All Areas of Cancer Expertise The Kinds of Cancers We Treat Our doctors offer advanced, personalized care across all types of cancer, including those of the breast, lung, prostate, brain, and spine. When you receive care at NYU Langone, our compassionate providers build our treatment team around you—and your healthy outcome. View All Cancers We Treat The Cancer Care You Need, Where You Need It At Perlmutter Cancer Center, a National Cancer Institute–designated Comprehensive Care Center, we offer the most advanced care at 37 locations throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island. As Brooklyn’s only NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, we provide ever-expanding services to communities of the city’s largest borough. We bring top cancer care closer to home, so you can focus on your health. Here’s where you can find us. “It’s one thing to get medical treatment that is excellent. But it’s another thing when people go above and beyond. They took care of me physically, emotionally, and spiritually.” Read Our Stories Ranked Among the Top 20 Cancer Centers in the Nation ’s “Best Hospitals” ranks Perlmutter Cancer Center among the top 20 in the nation. Doctors at the Forefront of Their Fields Our compassionate physicians are leaders in their cancer specialties and committed to achieving the very best treatment outcomes. Medical, radiation, and surgical oncologists and other specialists seamlessly collaborate across our health system to support your whole health. View All Cancer Specialists Transforming Cancer Care with Education and Research Our doctors are dedicated to training the next generation of oncologists and to leading basic, translational, and clinical research to define new standards for cancer treatment. Cancer Education & Training Cancer Research Cancer News and Breakthroughs Explore the Latest Developments from Our Experts We have locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Westchester County. 646-933-3931 At NYU Langone’s Center for Amputation Reconstruction, our experts provide specialized care for people with limb loss. Our surgeons partner with occupational therapists, prosthetists, and mental health professionals to help you achieve the maximum level of movement and function after amputation. We recognize that limb loss not only affects physical functioning, but also psychological and emotional wellbeing. We bring together a team that can identify and address any barriers to regaining mobility and independence. Our mission is to empower you to more seamlessly engage in your activities and move through everyday life. VIDEO: Meet the multidisciplinary care team at NYU Langone’s Center for Amputation Reconstruction. Limb Loss Rehabilitation Rehabilitation medicine specialists provide care and support as you continue your recovery. Our surgeons specialize in the most advanced surgical techniques and prosthetic technologies, and work together with you to understand your goals and attain the best possible outcome. We offer options that help to reduce pain, treat phantom limb sensation, and improve the movement and control of an amputated limb with prosthesis. These procedures include the following: targeted muscle reinnervation (TMR), a surgical procedure that minimizes chronic pain and helps with prosthesis control creation of regenerative peripheral nerve interfaces within the amputated limb to stimulate nerves, help manage pain and improve prosthetic function revision surgery of the amputated limb and nerve procedures to ease pain that results from an ill-fitting prosthesis osseointegration, a procedure in which the prosthesis is integrated and permanently implanted into the bone fitting of a myoelectric prosthesis, which uses electrodes to pick up and respond to electrical impulses that are created when muscles are flexed Our surgeons collaborate with a team that includes on-site occupational therapists and prosthetists to tailor care to your specific needs and priorities. Our prosthetists are highly experienced in providing an array of prosthetic devices for all levels of limb loss and assist in surgical planning to ensure optimal fit, integration, and comfort. Our occupational therapists recognize the roles, activities, and personal experiences that are most meaningful to you in developing a treatment and rehabilitation plan. Our team of experts collaborates to ensure people with limb loss receive the care they need. After surgery, we can refer you to , where specialists in physical medicine and rehabilitation, physical and occupational therapy, psychology, social work, and vocational rehabilitation provide you with so you can continue your recovery. Continuing Medical Education NYU Langone regularly hosts continuing medical education (CME) events designed to help doctors and other medical professionals develop, maintain, and increase their knowledge and skills. Our next event, Bionic Reconstruction Conference (BReCON): The Future of Integrated Upper Limb Surgical and Prosthetic Innovation , takes place on November 30, 2023 from 7:00AM to 5:00PM at NYU Langone Health Alumni Hall, 550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016. Register for this conference and learn more about all of our CME events For questions about our services, call 646-933-3931 or email Wendy Razzi, program coordinator, at Wendy.Razzi@NYULangone.org If you are a prosthetist who would like to refer a patient, please call 718-440-5307 Show Menu Specialties Cardiology & Heart Surgery Diabetes & Endocrinology Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Neurology & Neurosurgery Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Urology Case of the Month Physician Resources Expert Perspectives Center for Molecular Oncology Will Deliver Personalized Cancer Care at Scale Dr. Shridar Ganesan and Dr. Alec Kimmelman discuss how the new Center for Molecular Oncology could transform patient care. Unleashing the Clinical Potential of Whole-Genome Sequencing A big-picture approach to molecular oncology could reveal new therapeutic targets, improve diagnostic testing, and transform patient care. Tackling Underuse & Expanding Access to Blood & Marrow Transplant Services Dr. Anne S. Renteria joins NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island to boost access to state-of-the-art cell therapies. Classifying Individual Cancers to Help Transform Treatment Dr. Shridar Ganesan on how the tools of molecular oncology can reshape cancerdiagnosis, treatment, and research. Urologist Dr. Stacy Loeb on the Benefit of Plant-Based Diets for Prostate Cancer Her team's research highlights the benefits of plant-based eating for cancer prevention and enhancing the health of survivors. Practice-Changing Medicine Optimizing Access to Fertility Preservation Across a Large Health System Perlmutter Cancer Center’s new program ensures that patients know their options—and have the opportunity to pursue them. In Conversation With Dr. Steven Hodak on New Paradigms in the Diagnosis & Treatment of Thyroid Nodules Co-director of Thyroid Program discusses how we’re seeing a huge shift in the way we can take care of patients with thyroid disease. Explore More NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Cancer Ranked Among the Nation’s Best Cancer Centers An NCI Comprehensive Cancer Center 200+ active interventional therapeutic clinical trials Complex Case Spotlight Targeted Salvage Cryoablation Resolves Radio-Recurrent Prostate Cancer Advanced Imaging Localizes Lesion & Rules Out Metastatic Disease About 11 years after a diagnosis of prostate cancer treated with radiation therapy, a patient presented with progressively rising PSA levels. Multiparametric MRI revealed a lesion in the left medial posterior base peripheral zone; a subsequent MRI-ultrasound fusion biopsy demonstrated prostate cancer in 1 of 12 systematic cores and 3 of 3 targeted cores obtained from the lesion. An 18F-fluciclovine whole-body PET CT supported the conclusion of a local recurrence and found no evidence of metastatic disease. Prostate imaging. A) Axial T2 MRI scan showing PI-RADS 5 lesion. B) Apparent diffusion coefficient map with corresponding region of restricted diffusion. C) 18F-fluciclovine PET demonstrating uptake in the left posterior prostate. 1 of 3 Salvage Cryoablation Treats Prostate Cancer Recurrence Salvage partial gland cryoablation deploys the energy in a smaller and more focal treatment volume and at a slower rate to minimize the higher risk for side effects in a post-radiation setting. For the procedure, six V-probes were placed into the left posterior hemi-prostate, with six thermocouple probes at treatment boundaries to provide intraoperative temperature assessment of the margins. Post-ablation imaging. A) Pretreatment MRI. B) Four-year post-ablation MRI showing no evidence of tumor. 2 of 3 Post-Treatment PSA Monitoring Affirms Successful Cancer Therapy To be successful, salvage focal cryoablation requires careful patient selection and a meticulous treatment application; in addition, monitoring patients with serial PSA and MRI can provide essential clinical endpoints. Four years after the salvage cryoablation procedure, regular PSA monitoring has found no evidence of prostate cancer in the patient. Read The Full Article The patient’s PSA levels. 3 of 3 Your Partner in Every Patient’s Care To refer a patient, call Subscribe for Updates in Cancer Sign up for Physician Focus emails for practice-changing news and perspectives from our experts at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Select Your Interests The Best Experts and Latest Breakthroughs to receive updates on our pioneering research, innovations, expert perspectives, case studies, practice-changing medicine, and more. If you are a member of the media and interested in any of these stories, contact: Media Relations Office NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Expert Diagnosis Interventional Endocrinology Scar-Reducing or Scarless Surgery Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are internationally recognized leaders in providing innovative, supportive, and expert care to people who have thyroid disease. The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland that sits right where the knot of a necktie would be and produces hormones that control your metabolism, growth, and development. At the Forefront of Care We were the first in New York City to offer radiofrequency ablation to treat large, noncancerous thyroid nodules and are among the first in the U.S. to use the technology to treat some small thyroid cancers. New Ablative Therapy We are the first in the New York State area to offer innovative nanosecond pulsed field ablation to treat thyroid nodules. Innovative Treatments NYU Langone is one of only a few medical centers in the United States to offer thyroid artery embolization as an alternative to surgery to treat extremely large goiters. Leaders in the Field Members of our team are among the founders of the North American Society for Interventional Thyroidology, which has pioneered the use of nonsurgical thyroid procedures. Our team of doctors includes endocrinologists, surgeons, radiologists, interventional neurosurgeons, radiation and medical oncologists, and pathologists. Together, we treat a wide variety of thyroid conditions, including thyroid nodules and all types of thyroid cancer . We also treat A Full Spectrum of Care We offer a full spectrum of care, from the diagnosis of thyroid nodules to the newest interventional, minimally invasive treatments that are not widely available at other institutions. Our doctors were among the first in the United States to offer three interventional, nonsurgical approaches to care: radiofrequency ablation (RFA), thyroid artery embolization, and nanosecond pulsed field ablation, or nsPFA. Our doctors are also experts in ethanol (alcohol) ablation of thyroid cysts. These interventional endocrinology procedures can reduce or eliminate scarring and help preserve healthy thyroid tissue, avoiding hypothyroidism, which is common following thyroid surgery. Interventional procedures are an excellent alternative to surgery for appropriately selected patients. In cases where conventional open surgery is required, our experts evaluate patients to identify opportunities to use advanced techniques that help to minimize visible scarring Personalized, Streamlined, High-Quality Treatment Our experts partner with you to create care plans tailored to your needs, providing the right treatment at the right time. From education about treatment options to creating seamless treatment plans that reduce the number of appointments needed, we support your individual healthcare goals. Whether you require a watchful waiting approach for a thyroid nodule , active surveillance of small thyroid cancers—which means watching closely without surgery— , an interventional procedure, or surgery, our specialists provide you with the highest quality of care. We thoughtfully combine new and evolving techniques in our care plans and offer patients access to innovative treatments. Our doctors are leaders in minimally invasive treatments for thyroid nodules and cancers. Sumedha Chablani Umamaheswar Duvvuri Alexander R. Goldberg Sapir N. Goldberg Steven Hodak Kenneth S. Hu Rachel Liou Endocrine Surgeon Lindsey E. Moses Melonie A. Nance Kepal N. Patel Michael J. Persky Jason D. Prescott Insoo Suh Theresa Tran Ruth A. White Head & Neck Oncologist From Cancer Patient to Med School Medical Dermatology Cosmetic Dermatology Hair Loss Services Surgical Dermatology Pediatric Dermatology Allergic & Contact Dermatology Skin of Color Services Skin Autoimmune Disorder Services Pigmented Lesions & Melanoma Services Our NYU Langone dermatologists are experts in the diagnosis of all skin cancers . We specialize in providing care for people who are at increased risk of developing , including people who have many pigmented lesions such as moles and atypical or dysplastic nevi, and people who have already had melanoma or who have a family history of the condition. Our team has a long history of leadership in the diagnosis of melanoma at its early, surgically curable stage. Most notably, doctors at NYU Langone developed the “ABCDE” method for identifying melanoma, which is now widely recognized. We also pioneered the use of standardized total body photography to monitor people at increased risk for melanoma, and dermoscopy and other noninvasive methods to improve the accuracy of our diagnoses of skin lesions that are suspected of being cancer. Our dermatologists are leaders in educating dermatologists-in-training and dermatologists throughout the world in these methods. We use the latest dermascopy tools that can identify cancerous lesions with great accuracy. Our patients benefit from our use of the latest noninvasive diagnostic methods and tools. These include total body photography to monitor people who have an increased number of pigmented skin lesions, and dermoscopy, which uses a handheld magnifier that allows dermatologists to look deeply into the skin. We also use sequential digital dermoscopic monitoring, which allows us to detect skin cancer at the earliest stages while performing fewer biopsies of harmless lesions. The latest addition to our noninvasive diagnostic toolkit is an imaging technology called reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM). RCM is a U.S. Food and Drug Administration–approved, noninvasive imaging tool that is designed to capture highly magnified images of the skin in real time, at a nearly microscopic level. It provides a more accurate diagnosis of melanoma than any other skin examination method. This leads to detection of very early stage melanomas, particularly on the face, and fewer biopsies of benign lesions. RCM may also be used as a guide for biopsies of large, atypical lesions on the face that may be a symptom of lentigo maligna, a slow-growing form of melanoma found on skin that has received a lot of sun damage. This tool can also be used for presurgical imaging of skin cancers that have been already biopsied. This allows our surgeons to use smaller margins of normal skin when removing skin cancers, preventing unnecessarily large scars in areas where tissue preservation is of importance—for example, on the face, hands, feet, or the genitals—and reducing the risk of local recurrence. When biopsy—the removal of a small skin sample—is necessary to analyze a suspicious lesion, our expert dermatopathologists provide quick and precise analysis, allowing you to receive an accurate diagnosis as soon as possible. Diagnosing and removing melanoma at its earliest stages offers you the best chance for a full recovery. Our Pigmented Lesions and Melanoma Team Our team of dermatologists has extensive experience in evaluating and diagnosing atypical nevi and melanoma. We collaborate actively with physicians as needed to provide the highest-quality care. Amanda Levine, MD Tracey Liebman, MD Dermatology, Melanoma Dermatology David Polsky, MD, PhD Jennifer A. Stein, MD, PhD Top quality and safety standards reflect our commitment to excellence and the best outcomes for our patients. NYU Langone Ranks No. 1 in the U.S. for Quality & Safety Read About Our Care Featured Care and Services Whether you need a routine checkup or heart valve replacement, our doctors help you reach and maintain your optimal health, while providing the highest standard of care and the most advanced treatment options. Our providers are your partners in helping you get and stay healthy. Get same-day treatment for common, non-emergency illnesses and injuries. From X-ray to MRI, our radiology experts offer the most advanced imaging services. Our orthopedic doctors provide exceptional care for conditions of the bones, joints, and muscles. Our cardiologists and cardiac surgeons work together to deliver seamless care. Brain and Spine Care We are leaders in the treatment of complex brain and spinal cord conditions. All Care and Services We have the expertise and provide the full range of patient care and services to meet all your healthcare needs. Specialists at offer the latest advances in cancer treatment. Care for children is provided through Search Care and Services 393 Results Abdominal Core Health & Hernia Program Learn About This Program Acute Care Surgery Addiction Psychiatry Adolescent Medicine Adrenal Surgery Program Learn About This Specialty Adult Hospital Medicine Adult Psychiatry Consult Airway Center Learn About This Center Alzheimer’s Disease & Related Dementias Family Support Program Anatomic Pathology Anesthesiology Anosmia Center Asthma Program Audiology Behcet’s Disease Center Blood Banking Bloodless Medicine & Surgery Program Learn About This Service Bone Health Bone Marrow Transplant Brain Injury Rehabilitation Breast Cancer Surgery Breast Imaging Breast Pathology Breast Plastic Surgery Bronchiectasis & NTM Program Cardiac Anesthesiology Cardiac Electrophysiology Cardiac Imaging Cardio-Oncology Cardio-Rheumatology Care on Demand Center for Ankle Arthritis Center for Arthritis & Autoimmunity Center for Brachial Plexus Injuries Chest Imaging Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Child & Adolescent Psychology Child Protection Clinical Neurophysiology Clinical Neuropsychology Clinical Pathology Cochlear Audiology Cornea External Disease & Refractive Surgery Cosmetic Plastic Surgery Critical Care Critical Care Anesthesiology Critical Care Surgery Cytopathology Dementia & Alzheimer's Dentistry Dermatologic Surgery Dermatopathology Developmental & Behavioral Pediatrics Dietitian Nutritionist Endocrine Surgery Endourology & Stone Disease Esophageal Gastroenterology Executive Physicals Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Family Medicine Family Travel Medicine Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Foot & Ankle Surgery Forensic Pathology Gender Affirming Surgery General Pediatric Services in Manhattan Geriatric Cardiology Program Gout Treatment Center Gynecologic Oncology Hand Plastic Surgery Hand Therapy Hand & Wrist Surgery Headache Medicine Hearing & Balance Center Hematology Hematopathology Hip & Knee Reconstruction Infectious Disease Allergy and Immunology Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program Internal Medicine Interventional Pulmonology Laboratory Medicine Laryngology & Voice Liver Care & Transplant Program Lupus Center Lymphedema Therapy Male Sexual and Reproductive Health Medicaid Reenrollment Services Melanoma Dermatology Melanoma Surgery Microsurgery Musculoskeletal Imaging Nerve Center Neuro-Anesthesiology Neuro-Critical Care Neuroendocrinology Neuro-Genetics Neurointerventional Radiology Neurologic Therapy Neuromuscular Medicine Neuro-Oncology Neuro-Ophthalmology Neuro-Otology Neuropathology Neuropsychiatry Neuroradiology Nuclear Cardiology NYU Langone Long Island Vein Center NYU Langone Occupational & Industrial Orthopedic Center Obesity Medicine Obstetric Anesthesiology Occupational Medicine Ocular Oncology Oncologic Imaging Oncologic Orthopedic Surgery Optometry Oral-Maxillofacial Surgery Orthodontics Orthopedic Anesthesiology Orthopedic Rehabilitation Orthopedic Trauma Surgery Osteoporosis & Bone Health Program Osteoporosis & Osteopenia Otology & Neurotology Pain Rehabilitation Parkinson's & Movement Disorders Pediatric & Adult Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery Pediatric Allergy Pediatric Allergy & Immunology Pediatric Anesthesiology Pediatric Cardiac Surgery Pediatric Critical Care Medicine Pediatric Dentistry Pediatric Dietitian Nutritionist Pediatric Emergency Medicine Pediatric Endocrinology Pediatric Epilepsy Pediatric Feeding & Swallowing Therapy Pediatric Gastroenterology & Hepatology Pediatric Hand Surgery Pediatric Hematology-Oncology Pediatric Hospital Medicine Pediatric Infectious Disease Pediatric Neurology Pediatric Neuro-Oncology Pediatric Neuropsychology Pediatric Ophthalmology Pediatric Optometry Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Pediatric Pathology Pediatric Pulmonology Pelvic Floor Therapy Podiatry Post-COVID Care Program Psoriatic Disease & Psoriatic Arthritis Psychosomatic Medicine Reconstructive Genitourinary Surgery Reconstructive Plastic Surgery Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility Retinal Ophthalmology Rhinology Sarcoidosis Program Shoulder & Elbow Surgery Skin Allergy Dermatology Skin Autoimmune Disorders Skin & Cancer Unit Skull Base Surgery Sleep Disorders Program Sleep Medicine Speech Pathology Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Sports Occupational Therapy Sports Orthopedic Surgery Sports Physical Therapy Strabismus Surgical Oncology Swallow and Airway Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Program Thyroid Disorders TMJ Physical Therapy Toxicology Tracheal & Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program Transgender Endocrinology Transplant Surgery Uro-Gynecology Urologic Oncology Vascular Neurology Vitreoretinal Surgery Work Conditioning Therapy Sharing Insights, Advancing Medicine Sign up for specialty updates on practice-changing ideas and innovations from our experts at NYU Langone Health. Explore by Specialty View More Latest Articles Mapping the Molecular Mechanisms of Stress & Depression Dr. Carla Nasca on how a mitochondrial metabolite could yield a new disease biomarker and precision medicine strategy. AI-Generated Responses to Patient Questions on Thyroid Disease Are Accurate & Empathetic Study suggests AI may help improve the efficiency of patient–provider messaging and reduce the clinician workload. Top Honors Awarded to Cardiovascular Researcher for Work on Inflammation Dr. Kathryn Moore discusses the pioneering research on chronic inflammation that earned her a prestigious prize. Advancing Science Groundbreaking ‘Liquid Biopsy’ Detects Platelet Hyperreactivity Using genetic markers, researchers devise a score to assess risk of thrombosis-related cardiovascular events. Helping Families Achieve Excellent Glycemic Outcomes Dr. Mary Pat Gallagher discusses best practices for pediatric diabetes care. Clarifying the Role of Muscle Dysfunction in Vocal Trauma Literature on vocal fold injury has focused on the mucosa; now, researchers spotlight the laryngeal muscles. Most Popular Advancing Auvelity, a Novel Antidepressant Alternative to Ketamine A lead investigator behind the FDA approval of a new drug discusses its clinical advantages and research history. Direct Evidence of SARS-CoV-2 in Coronary Arteries Study finds SARS-CoV-2 can infect vascular macrophages, promoting inflammation that may increase stroke, heart attack risks. An AI Model for Digital Breast Tomosynthesis New AI model for 3D images improves breast cancer screening while reducing computational complexity. 13 Nationally Ranked Specialties Across nearly every metric of hospital and outpatient quality, NYU Langone Health ranks at the top. As well as having the most top 10-ranked specialties in New York according to U.S. News & World Report, 13 specialties are ranked nationally – with nine ranked in the top 5 – and NYU Langone is on the honor roll of the top hospitals in the nation. Our digital journal, Physician Focus highlights our latest innovations and research highlights. ‘We Aren’t Afraid to Innovate’—How to Embrace Risk in Surgery Cardiothoracic surgeon Dr. T.K. Susheel Kumar on taking calculated risks to advance pediatric heart surgery. How One of the Nation’s Largest Neurology Residency Programs Equips Trainees for Success Program director Dr. Arielle Kurzweil highlights the program’s innovative curriculum and approach to training. Bringing Women’s Cancer Care to the Forefront Dr. Elizabeth Comen spotlights the importance of listening to women’s concerns, in oncology and across all specialties. Calling for Uniform Prescribing After Cataract Surgery National survey reinforces the need for clear, evidence-based prescribing guidelines. Four Minutes to Prostate Cancer Diagnosis Advanced imaging and AI can rapidly and accurately detect prostate cancer in a biopsy. Histotripsy Makes Its Clinical Debut in NYC Recently approved by the FDA for liver tumors, histotripsy offers an array of advantages over thermal ablation techniques. Subscribe for Updates in Your Specialty Choose your interests to receive complex case studies, research highlights, physician perspectives, and other news in 15 adult specialties. Case Studies Case of the Month When Sacrocolpopexy Is the Best Choice for Post-Cystectomy Prolapse A young MIBC survivor with prolapse wanted to stay physically and sexually active. Dr. Lauren Stewart knew sacrocolpopexy, despite its complexity, was the best option. Toddler with Alagille Syndrome Bounces Back After Split Liver Transplant Aware of risks, including significant failure to thrive, highly experienced surgeons performed a successful operation. Tiny Human, Giant Steps Aided by a multidisciplinary approach to rehabilitation, a severely premature infant makes the journey from the NICU to preschool. Research Advances How Psilocybin May Modify Brain Function in Alcohol Use Disorder A recent fMRI study is the first to map neural networks affected by psilocybin in alcohol use disorder. New Institute Advances the Goal of Optimal Aging An expert in aging and epidemiology discusses how integrated research may help older adults improve their health and live longer New App in Development Aims to Offer Personalized Mental Health Support Research ramps up for an AI-powered app that connects healthcare workers to mental health resources. To refer a patient, Nurturing a Culture of Highest-Quality Care Chief Quality Officer Ilseung Cho, MD, discusses the deeper meaning and impact behind NYU Langone’s top accolades for care quality and safety. Before receiving care as a patient at NYU Langone, we ask that you review or sign several forms to make sure that you understand your rights and responsibilities. Prior to your hospital stay or doctor’s visit, forms and notices you need to review or sign are posted in your Download the NYU Langone Health App on the App Store or Google Play. You can read and sign forms in advance of your visit in order to expedite your check-in process. Review the patient notices and information for the following types of visits information for your first visit information for your hospital visit information for an observation visit information for visits to a doctor’s office Request and Share Your Medical Records You can request your medical records and share them with anyone you authorize, such as a healthcare professional, family member, or legal professional. Learn more about requesting your medical records You may be coming to NYU Langone for a doctor’s office appointment or for a hospital stay as an inpatient, outpatient, or for observation . The forms you need to fill out vary depending on the type of visit, which include the following: An inpatient stay at a hospital, which usually lasts more than two nights, often for surgery, medical treatments, or to stabilize a serious illness or injury. An outpatient stay, which may take place at a hospital or one of our outpatient care centers, where you may have tests, a variety of treatments, or minor surgery. The stay is typically a few hours. Observation, which is a specific kind of outpatient care. People under observation remain in a hospital bed while being monitored for a serious change in their medical condition, usually for less than 24 hours. During that time, a healthcare team decides if the patient needs to be admitted to the hospital. A visit to a doctor’s office to receive care from a physician or another medical professional. Forms for Your First Visit During your first visit to an NYU Langone facility, including a hospital, care location, or doctor’s office where the NYU Langone logo is displayed, you need to read and sign the Patient Privacy and HIPAA Rights forms . This information, along with our Health Information Exchange Fact Sheet and Consent Form, is also available in multiple languages . Learn more about HIPAA patient privacy information For your safety, we use the PatientSecure system. With biometric technology, the system scans a unique feature of your hand to simplify patient registration and provide the most accurate form of patient identification for future visits to NYU Langone. People coming for a hospital visit may need to review these notices and information: Acute Inpatient Rehabilitation Privacy Act (if you are admitted to Rusk Rehabilitation) Health Care Proxy Information Health Information Exchange (HIE) Fact Sheet and Consent Form Hospital Disclosure Form Inpatient, Outpatient, and Observation Visit Information Release of Records for External Appeal Statement of Patient and Visitor Responsibilities Your Rights as a Hospital Patient in New York State, which include the links below Deciding About Health Care Patients’ Bill of Rights Information Parents’ Bill of Rights Information We also provide hospital forms in several languages, including Chinese, English, Haitian–Creole, Italian, Korean, Russian, and Spanish. Notice for Your Observation Visit People coming for an observation visit need to review the following notice: Medicare Outpatient Observation Notice Forms for Visits to a Doctor’s Office If you are a patient who has not yet been to an NYU Langone doctor’s office, you can review the registration forms below in advance of your first office visit to help expedite the initial registration process. Please call your doctor’s office if you have questions about the forms. Summary of Faculty Group Practice (FGP) Financial Policies Additional Forms for Doctor’s Office Visits Review these additional forms that you may need during the course of your treatment at NYU Langone: Authorization for the Use and Disclosure PHI (release of information and instructions) Credit Card Storage and Authorization Form Deaf and Hard of Hearing Questionnaire Financial Assistance Application Medicaid Non-Par Waiver Medicare Opt-Out Waiver New York State Assignment of Benefit Non-Par Financial Acknowledgment Form NYU Langone Health MyChart Proxy Access Patient Consent Form for Interpreter Services Patient Information Change/Verification Form Workers Compensation/No Fault Insurance Registration Form 646-754-9607 Experts at NYU Langone’s Gout Treatment Center specialize in diagnosing and treating both simple and complex cases of gout. Our doctors also help people manage other forms of crystal-induced arthritis, such as calcium pyrophosphate arthritis, which is also known as pseudogout. Our mission is to help people with gout and related conditions live pain-free, healthy lives. Gout is a form of arthritis in which microscopic crystals of uric acid—a normal waste product in the blood—build up in the joints, causing inflammation. This leads to painful, intermittent attacks that can last for days, weeks, or even months. In some cases, the crystals combine into lumps called tophi, which can be large, chronically painful, and cause permanent damage to bone. People with gout commonly experience other health conditions—including , and cardiac disease—that may be directly related to gout. Gout is a chronic metabolic disease that is usually readily treatable but typically requires long-term management. Genetics are the primary risk factor, but diet and associated medical conditions may also increase risk. Treatment for Gout At NYU Langone’s Gout Treatment Center, we prescribe medications to treat acute attacks, prevent future attacks, and decrease the risk of long-term problems. We use the most sophisticated diagnostic and imaging tests to determine the severity of the condition and offer the most advanced treatments available, including medications to reduce pain and inflammation as well as guidance about lifestyle and dietary changes to ease symptoms. In addition, our experts conduct that provide access to investigational treatments for people with gout and related conditions. We also provide a variety of support services, including guidance about exercise, physical therapy, and pain management. Our rheumatologists are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of gout and other related conditions. Michael Toprover Clinical Director The NYU Langone Center for Arthritis and Autoimmunity can help you manage rheumatologic conditions including , autoimmune disease during pregnancy, Behçet’s disease , gout, metabolic bone disease, mixed connective tissue disorders, osteoarthritis, , scleroderma and Raynaud’s disease, spondyloarthropathy and seronegative arthritis, Sjogren's syndrome In addition to providing exceptional care, we offer access to a vast array of additional services such as orthopedic and neurological consultative services, nutritional and psychological counseling, rehabilitation services, and the most advanced diagnostic testing available, including musculoskeletal ultrasound. Our experts provide specialized care through our Behçet’s Disease Center As leaders in clinical research, we provide our patients with access to new clinical trials and leading-edge therapies and treatments. We also provide techniques including arthrocentesis—a simple procedure using a needle to drain fluid from the joints—and injections of intra-articular steroid and hyaluronic acid to reduce inflammation and pain. , the Center for Arthritis and Autoimmunity provides unmatched multispecialty care in one convenient location, eliminating the need to travel to many separate locations for your care. Our more than 400 specialists include experts in rheumatology, rehabilitation medicine, orthopedics, neurology, radiology, pain management, physical and occupational therapy, exercise physiology, pharmacy, and nursing. Together with our staff and support staff, they collaborate to develop a holistic treatment plan specific to your unique needs. Our rheumatologists are internationally known for providing diagnosis, treatment and exceptional care for patients with systemic autoimmune diseases. David B. Beck Clinical Geneticist H. Michael Belmont Lupus Doctor Rebecca B. Blank Jill P. Buyon Margaret A. Coyle Sarah E. Davis Brian D. Golden Gary H. Ho Catherine R. Howe Euna Lee Eileen J. Lydon Johannes Nowatzky Amit Saxena Bruce M. Solitar Sara E. Stream View All 26 Doctors & 26 We have multiple locations throughout New York City, Long Island, Westchester County, and Florida. Condition-Focused Cardiac Care Cardiac Amyloidosis Program Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Center Geriatric Cardiology Cardiac Testing & Imaging Women's Cardiology Leaders in Cardiac Surgery We have a three-star rating—the highest given—from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for mitral valve replacement and repair, aortic valve repair, and coronary artery bypass. Access to Top Care We have more than 300 cardiologists who specialize in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of heart disease. At NYU Langone Heart, our doctors are dedicated to your cardiovascular health. Our specialists in provide safe, compassionate, high-quality care throughout our extensive network of hospitals and doctor’s offices. Whether you need a plan to prevent heart disease, a procedure to open a blocked artery or repair a valve, or even a new heart, our specialists work together seamlessly to provide you with the best-possible care. Mitral Valve Surgery We get patients home four days sooner after mitral valve procedures, according to the Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Our cardiologists are the front line in the prevention and diagnosis of heart disease. They identify the root causes of your symptoms and create a personalized treatment plan to reverse , or other conditions that increase heart disease risk. They also play a vital role in managing conditions such as atrial fibrillation (AFib) . In addition, they provide specialized care to women people who have cancer or are cancer survivors and need to protect their heart health older adults who have cardiovascular disease If you require additional care, our interventional cardiologists and cardiac surgeons can perform procedures using transcatheter, robotic, or open approaches. We are one of the highest-volume centers for transcatheter mitral valve repair , which were pioneered by doctors at NYU Langone. We have also earned a three-star rating, the highest, from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for mitral valve replacement and repair, aortic valve repair, and coronary artery bypass. Our is one of the top programs in the country, according to data from the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients. Our Care & Services Our cardiologists are experts in the prevention, diagnosis, and management of cardiovascular conditions. Learn More About Our Cardiology Care Our heart surgeons perform coronary artery bypass, mitral valve replacement and repair, and aortic valve replacement. may be hereditary, or it may be a sign of an underlying medical condition, such as nutritional deficiencies, thyroid imbalances, infections of the scalp, or an autoimmune disease. Hair loss can affect people of any age. Our dermatologists recognize that hair loss may affect how you feel about your appearance, and offer customized care and emotional support to help you feel like your best self. Among other treatments, we offer platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy, a procedure used to stimulate hair follicles to promote regrowth. We also diagnose and treat other hair disorders, such as excessive hair growth, also called hirsutism. Hair Loss Services for Adults For adults who are experiencing hair loss, platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy is a procedure used to stimulate hair follicles to regrow hair. Growth factors from PRP are injected through the skin into the scalp, triggering and stimulating regrowth. Other treatments for hair loss may include oral, topical, or injectable medications, depending on the precise diagnosis made by your hair loss dermatologist. Diagnosing hair loss can be complex. Our specialists use advanced equipment to magnify the scalp on a screen for both you and your doctor to see. This allows your doctor to better provide a diagnosis and determine whether treatments are working. Other specialized equipment allows our doctors to establish your hair density and each hair’s width to determine whether the condition is improving. We are one of the very few centers in the United States with this advanced diagnostic equipment. We strive to find the best treatments for hair loss through research and education. NYU Langone is a research site for clinical trials, allowing us to offer our patients access to emerging treatments that promote hair growth. Hair Loss Services for Children Hair loss in children is usually accompanied by an underlying medical condition. Our pediatric dermatologists and hair loss specialists are experts in identifying the causes of hair loss in children. They can often treat the underlying condition or refer you to other specialists at for additional evaluation if needed. Our Hair Loss Team Our doctors specialize in providing hair loss services for people of all ages. Jerry Shapiro, MD Director of Hair and Scalp Disorders | Hair Loss, Dermatology Kristen Lo Sicco, MD Hair Loss, Dermatology Nikita R. Lakdawala, MD Dermatology, Pediatric Dermatology Pediatric Dermatology, Hair Loss Vikash S. Oza, MD Pediatric Dermatology, Skin Allergy Dermatology The Geriatric Cardiology Program was established in order to address the needs of older adults with cardiovascular disease. Older adults who have heart disease, usually those over age 70, often have other medical illnesses as well, which makes treatment more challenging. For example, effective medications for heart disease may have an increased risk of side effects in older adults or may interact with other medications. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 2 hospital in the nation for geriatrics and cardiology and heart surgery. Our doctors, part of , incorporate principles of geriatric medicine into our routine cardiology practice, including a comprehensive geriatric assessment, evaluation of any drug interactions, and consideration of an individual’s physical capabilities. Our goals are to provide high-quality outpatient and inpatient cardiac care, and to pursue innovative clinical studies that can help us improve the heart health of older adults. We also collaborate with the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Medicine at NYU Grossman School of Medicine to better understand the best way to treat cardiovascular disease in older adults. Find a cardiovascular disease expert who specializes in geriatric medicine. Our women’s health experts are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Women’s Sports Health Obstetrics & Gynecology Patient Stories Women deserve healthcare tailored to their unique needs. At NYU Langone, our experts in women’s health are dedicated to helping you stay well and feel your best at every stage of life. We work as a team to deliver a healthcare experience that is personalized to you and your goals. We provide comprehensive care aimed at helping you achieve and maintain peak wellness. Our team includes primary care providers and obstetrician–gynecologists who work in partnership with specialists in cardiology, , endocrinology, gastroenterology, to meet all your healthcare needs. Our gynecologic care is available to women of all ages, starting in adolescence through menopause and beyond. We provide the most advanced treatments for hormonal disorders and conditions specific to women, including , and vulvar conditions. We are also leaders in obstetric care . We strive to make every safe, supported, and special. Nearly 15,000 babies are born at NYU Langone each year, and we provide compassionate care for our pregnant patients, including those experiencing high-risk pregnancies. We also provide the most advanced treatments for people experiencing infertility , and have helped tens of thousands of people start and grow their families. Our Centers and Programs We offer the latest fibroid tumor treatments with the goal of reducing symptoms and preventing recurrence. We help reduce symptoms and improve overall health and wellbeing during the menopause transition. Learn More About the Center for Midlife Health and Menopause We help our patients manage the symptoms of endometriosis. We offer primary care and access to specialists, all focused on the specific medical needs of women. Learn More About the Center for Women’s Health Our specialists care for women experiencing high-risk pregnancies. Learn More About Maternal-Fetal Medicine Services Whether you want to start a family now or preserve your fertility for the future, our experts can help. Learn More About NYU Langone Fertility Center Our doctors provide routine gynecologic screenings and pregnancy care. Learn More About Obstetrics and Gynecology Associates NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Center East 53rd Street 159 East 53rd Street, New York, NY, 10022 646-987-3853 Breast Cancer Specialist Joins Perlmutter Cancer Center Clinical Trial Leads to Lifesaving Breast Cancer Treatment Combining Breast Cancer Treatment with Aesthetics A Message for Black Women: Know Your Risk of Breast Cancer NYU Langone Orthopedics Locations World-class care from is within reach, with locations throughout New York City, on Long Island, and in Westchester County, New Jersey, and Florida. New York City Locations Joan H. and Preston Robert Tisch Center at Essex Crossing NYU Orthopedic Associates—Midtown East NYU Langone Orthopedic Behavioral Health Associates Rusk Rehabilitation at NYU Langone Orthopedic Center Joseph S. and Diane H. Steinberg Ambulatory Care Center—Cobble Hill NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery Associates—Flushing Long Island Locations Concussion Center at NYU Langone Ambulatory Care East Meadow NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Bethpage NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Lake Success NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Lake Success—1999 Marcus Avenue NYU Langone Ambulatory Surgery Center—Garden City NYU Langone Long Island Podiatry Associates NYU Langone Long Island Podiatry Associates—North Babylon NYU Langone Medical Associates—East Patchogue NYU Langone Medical Associates—Patchogue, 100 Hospital Road, Suite 115 NYU Langone Orthopedic Associates—Hauppauge Westchester County Locations NYU Langone Medical Associates—Harrison NYU Langone Medical Associates—Tarrytown New Jersey Locations Florida Locations Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are experts in interventional endocrinology—using minimally invasive treatments to manage a variety of thyroid conditions. We create a personalized treatment plan to ensure that you have the best possible outcome. While medications are useful for many thyroid conditions, we also offer advanced interventional thyroid procedures to manage thyroid nodules and cancers . These nonsurgical approaches, which leave little or no scarring, include radiofrequency ablation, nanosecond pulsed field ablation (nsPFA), thyroid artery embolization, and alcohol ablation. We also use the latest approaches to perform remote access surgeries, which are scar-reducing or scarless procedures Leaders in Interventional Endocrinology Treatment Our team of doctors is at the forefront of developing and using interventional endocrinology treatments. These nonsurgical procedures can treat thyroid conditions that were previously only managed with surgery or radioactive iodine ablation, which damage healthy thyroid tissue and increase the risk of . Patients who develop hypothyroidism require a daily dose of thyroid hormone . We use safe and effective interventional procedures because they help preserve healthy thyroid tissue and protect and restore thyroid function. Pioneers in Radiofrequency Ablation for Thyroid Nodules Our doctors were the first in New York City to offer thyroid radiofrequency ablation, or RFA , a technology that delivers heat to destroy large, noncancerous thyroid nodules that press on surrounding structures or cause undesirable bulging in the neck. We also use RFA to destroy nodules that cause hyperthyroidism Our team of experts may recommend RFA to treat some thyroid cancers or thyroid cancer that has come back in nearby lymph nodes. Trailblazers in Nanosecond Pulsed Field Ablation We are among the first doctors in New York area to offer nanosecond pulsed field ablation for the treatment of toxic thyroid nodules that cause hyperthyroidism. This highly precise treatment delivers short electrical pulses that break down unwanted thyroid tissue and preserves surrounding healthy structures. Experts in Thyroid Artery Embolization Thyroid artery embolization interrupts blood flow and shrinks an extremely enlarged thyroid, also known as a goiter. A goiter can sometimes grow below the collarbone, protrude into the chest, or cause the neck to swell. We were among the first and are still one of only a handful of medical centers in the United States to offer this procedure. Specialists in Ethanol Ablation We may offer ethanol (alcohol) ablation to treat fluid-filled thyroid nodules, also known as cysts. This procedure may also be used to destroy lymph nodes containing cancer cells that have spread from the thyroid. Scar-Reducing or Scarless Thyroid Surgery Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are leaders in advanced, remote access surgery to manage benign or cancerous thyroid nodules or to remove the thyroid gland to manage various thyroid conditions, without a visible scar on the front of the neck. With remote access endocrine surgery, our experts avoid making incisions on the front of the neck, and instead make tiny incisions under the chin, inside and behind the lower lip, or behind the ear to reduce or eliminate scarring. During surgery, we also use recurrent laryngeal nerve monitoring to minimize the risk of damage to the nerve that helps the voice box to function. We may also use parathyroid autofluorescence, a technology that minimizes the risk of damaging the parathyroid glands, which are located near the thyroid. Specialists in Retroauricular Thyroid Surgery Our doctors perform robotic-assisted retroauricular thyroid surgery to remove part or all of the thyroid. We make an incision behind the ear to minimize visible scarring and use a surgical robot to help perform the procedure. The robotic-assisted approach results in excellent visualization and gives us the ability to perform the surgery with a hidden incision. Innovators in Scarless Thyroid Surgery As an early leader in performing the transoral endoscopic technique, in which the thyroid is accessed through incisions made in the mouth, our surgeons were the first to develop a new type of “scarless” procedure known as the transoral and submental technique (TOaST) to remove the thyroid. For this procedure, we make a tiny incision hidden in the natural fold under the chin and behind the lower lip area in the mouth to remove thyroid tissue, a method that minimizes visible scarring. The scar in the mouth is not visible, and the incision on the chin is nearly invisible. Expert Diagnosis of Thyroid Conditions NYU Langone Thyroid Program doctors specialize in diagnosing a full array of thyroid conditions . Diagnosing thyroid disease may sometimes be delayed because symptoms can be vague. They range from weight gain to weight loss and from fatigue to sleeplessness. Others still—especially people with thyroid nodules or cancers —have no symptoms at all. Despite these challenges, our specialists provide an accurate and timely diagnosis of thyroid conditions so that your treatment can start as soon as possible. Thyroid Imaging Neck ultrasound, or the use of sound waves to create images of the neck, is the most useful tool for evaluating and diagnosing thyroid nodules and most thyroid cancers . Our doctors are experts in performing and reading this crucial type of scan. Thyroid cancer may require sophisticated tests such as lymph node mapping to help us determine which lymph nodes, if any, cancer cells may have spread to. Our team also may also use radionuclide scans, such as a PET scan or radioactive iodine scan, to diagnose thyroid disease and cancer. These tests use a small amount of radioactive material to detect abnormal activity in the thyroid gland or to determine whether the cancer has spread to other areas of the body. These, along with other advanced nuclear imaging tests, are used to determine the best treatment course for you. Advanced Molecular Testing If imaging does not clearly show that a nodule is benign, patients may benefit from a fine-needle aspiration , in which thyroid cells are removed with a tiny needle attached to a syringe. Our pathologists examine the cells under a microscope to determine whether any are cancerous. Advanced molecular tests that examine genetic material in thyroid nodules cells may be required to determine whether the nodule is more likely to be cancerous or benign. Based on these results, our experts may recommend watchful waiting, a minimally invasive procedure, or thyroid surgery. In rare cases of advanced or metastatic thyroid cancer, we collaborate closely with experts at NYU Langone’s , where you can access and advanced targeted therapies. Thyroid Conditions We Treat Specialists at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program treat all types of thyroid nodules and thyroid cancers Thyroid Nodules We treat a full range of benign (noncancerous) thyroid nodules, including: benign nodules that press on surrounding structures, causing symptoms, or are cosmetically unappealing fluid-filled nodules, also known as cysts goiter of all types, including toxic nodular goiter, which may cause hyperthyroidism, and substernal thyroid goiter, which presses into the chest thyroglossal masses and other ectopic thyroid tissue toxic autonomous nodule Thyroid Cancers These are some of the many kinds of thyroid cancers we manage: papillary carcinoma unusual papillary thyroid cancers, including variants such as tall cell, insular, hobnail follicular carcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma oncocytic (Hürthle cell) cancer cribiform morular thyroid cancer lymphoma that appears in the thyroid poorly differentiated and anaplastic carcinoma, two of the most aggressive forms of thyroid cancer Types of Hyperthyroidism We create treatment plans for all types of hyperthyroidism, including the following: Graves’ disease thyroiditis, which is transient hyperthyroidism due to sudden inflammation or disruption of the thyroid amiodarone-induced hyperthyroidism pregnancy-related hyperthyroidism toxic autonomous thyroid nodules thyroid-stimulating hormone secreting pituitary tumors Types of Hypothyroidism Our doctors see patients who have the following types of hypothyroidism: Hashimoto’s thyroiditis postsurgical hypothyroidism amiodarone-induced central or pituitary-related checkpoint inhibitor therapy induced pregnancy-related hypothyroidism Types of Thyroiditis We manage several types of thyroiditis, which is inflammation of the thyroid gland: subacute (painful) lymphocytic (silent or painless) postpartum amiodarone-associated Whatever thyroid condition you may have, our doctors can create the right treatment plan for you. Support the Future of Health We can do incredible things with you on our team. Your gift empowers NYU Langone Health to overcome challenges and impact lives worldwide. 11.3M outpatient visits a year 100 full-tuition MD scholarships a year 162 endowed professorships 247% increase in NIH research funding since 2017 Make a Difference Raise Funds With Us and Make An Impact Rally your community. Donate your birthday, celebrate a special occasion or honor someone you love. Gather Your Friends For An Athletic Fundraiser Push the limits of what's possible. Join Team NYU Langone in the water, on the course, or around the track. Celebrate Our Frontline Heroes Nurses are the heart of NYU Langone Health. Support them this Nurses Day and everyday. Mar 9, 2022 Updated: Mar 9, 2022 Emily Scher Jan 9, 2025 9:21 pm EST What Our Supporters Say Push the limits of what’s possible. Join Team NYU Langone in the water, on the course, or around the track. Mar 9, 2022Updated: Mar 9, 2022 Jan 2, 20253:00 pmEST Modal Box modal- Click here to edit the “modal-box” settings. This text is only for editing and will not appear after you publish the changes.							Preview			modal- Homepage Read Inspiring Stories “I gave a donation to NYU Langone in honor of my son Dimitrios. He is in remission now…. Susan M. Family Member of Patient “15 years ago my twins were born 2 months early in the middle of the night. We didn’t… Bryan S. “My husband is a cancer survivor who was a patient of Dr. Chachoua’s. It has been 17 years… Suzanne R. 212-263-7311 Our experts diagnose and create tailored treatment plans for , a group of symptoms that result from the narrowing of the space between the first rib and the collarbone. This narrowing compresses nearby arteries, veins, and nerves, causing pain, swelling, numbness, skin discoloration, and blood clots in the neck, shoulder, arm, or hand. Thoracic outlet syndrome typically occurs from overuse of the arm from repetitive overhead movements at work or from certain sports, such as swimming or baseball. Sometimes a malformed first rib or a cervical rib—an extra rib located above the others—may compress surrounding blood vessels and nerves, contributing to symptoms. At NYU Langone’s Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Program, patients receive personalized, advanced care from our team, which includes vascular surgeons, , neuromuscular medicine specialists, , and pain management specialists. Treatment plans, which are tailored to the type of thoracic outlet syndrome a person has, may include , or minimally invasive treatment. Innovative, Minimally Invasive Surgical Approaches NYU Langone surgeons are among the most experienced at providing minimally invasive surgical options if other treatment methods do not provide relief. Options include robotic-assisted first rib resection , which involves removing the top rib to relieve compression of area blood vessels and nerves, and angioplasty or venoplasty , which uses a catheter-based approach to open compressed vessels. Our doctors are experts at managing thoracic outlet syndrome. Michael Zervos Our doctors help diagnose and manage thoracic outlet syndrome. Thoracic surgeons are an integral part of the care team for thoracic outlet syndrome. Physical and occupational therapy may be part of your treatment plan. NYU Langone Neurology Associates Neuromuscular specialists at NYU Langone Neurology Associates help manage thoracic outlet syndrome. Our specialists manage discomfort caused by thoracic outlet syndrome. We have doctors in Manhattan and Brooklyn, and on Long Island. To make an appointment, please contact one of our thoracic surgeons. Excellence in Lung Cancer Surgery We have a three-star rating from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for lung cancer lobectomy and resection, and our surgical volume and length of hospital stay are better than the national average. Our doctors have more than 30 years of experience and have performed more than 5,000 thoracic surgery procedures. ’s “Best Hospitals” rankings, NYU Langone is tied for No. 1 in the nation for pulmonology and lung surgery. NYU Langone’s thoracic surgeons specialize in using robotic-assisted surgical techniques to manage even the most complex cancers and other conditions that involve the lungs, esophagus, trachea, diaphragm, and mediastinum, as well as the surrounding chest area. Robotic-assisted surgery is a minimally invasive technique that allows for smaller incisions that result in faster recovery time, shorter hospital stay, and less postoperative pain. We were among the first to use robotic-assisted surgery to treat cancers and diseases of the chest, and our surgeons are among the most experienced in the world in using these methods. Thoracic surgeons from around the world regularly come to NYU Langone to learn how to master these techniques. Thoracic surgeries are usually complex, so our surgeons collaborate with pulmonologists and specialists in medical oncology, radiation oncology, and radiology from NYU Langone’s . Working together, your care team develops a treatment strategy targeted to your needs. Innovators in Thoracic Care to find newer, better treatments for lung cancer and mesothelioma. We are currently exploring new treatments that combine surgery with chemotherapy and immunotherapy, and are part of a clinical trial to determine the effectiveness of radiation mesh that is surgically placed on the lungs to shrink cancerous growths. Advances in Thoracic Surgery Our surgeons are researching new ways to improve care for people with lung cancer, mesothelioma, and other thoracic conditions. We are also exploring advanced surgical technology, including single-port robotic-assisted surgery, which requires only one incision, and navigational bronchoscopy, which combines imaging and robotic-assisted surgery to precisely remove smaller nodules of affected tissue instead of larger sections of lung. NYU Langone has received a three-star rating from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for lung cancer lobectomy and resection. This achievement, the highest rating possible, puts NYU Langone among the very best hospitals for general thoracic lung cancer surgery. In addition, our surgical team is one of the most experienced in the country, performing more surgeries than the national average. Our patients also go home sooner than average, with 90 percent of people who had lobectomy and 95 percent of people who had segmentectomy to remove a portion of the lung discharged within 24 hours. Our thoracic surgeons are leaders in the surgical treatment of , lung metastases from other sites in the body, , chest wall tumors, and , as well as all conditions that affect the chest area. These include , and tracheal stenosis. Our doctors perform the following thoracic surgery procedures, in most cases using robotic-assisted techniques: resection—including lobectomy, segmentectomy, and airway and pulmonary artery sleeve resection, to remove part of the lung—and pneumonectomy, to remove an entire lung surgery to remove tumors that spread to the chest wall, including Pancoast tumors mediastinal tumor surgery esophageal cancer surgery and surgery for benign esophageal disease airway surgery, including treatment for tracheobronchomalacia, which causes the windpipe to soften and collapse, and surgery to remove tracheal tumors , through our lung volume reduction surgery to treat emphysema, , and other conditions that affect breathing pulmonary thromboendarterectomy surgery for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension We also use video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS), a minimally invasive surgical technique, to treat lung cancer or drain fluid around the heart and lungs. Related Programs & Centers We specialize in minimally invasive surgical approaches, including robotic-assisted first rib resection. Learn More About the Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Program Our experts perform highly specialized surgery for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. Learn More About the CTEPH Program Robotic thoracic surgery is available for airway, breathing, and lung conditions. Learn More About the Robotic Surgery Center Our doctors develop individualized treatment plans for people with lung cancer and mesothelioma. Learn More About the Lung Cancer Center We offer lung transplants for people age 12 and older who have advanced lung diseases. Every person’s skin has a unique tone, texture, and color that requires tailored treatment. Many skin conditions may appear differently, and can be more or less severe, depending on a person’s background. Diagnosing and treating these conditions in different skin types requires a well-trained eye. Our team of exceptional board-certified dermatologists provides comprehensive treatments for any and all skin conditions in people of color. Our dermatologists are trained to diagnose and treat a variety of conditions affecting skin of color. We are one of the few dermatology divisions in the United States dedicated to advancing and promoting care for skin of color. The conditions we treat and the surgical and cosmetic procedures we utilize for care are as diverse as our patients. Skin of Color Conditions We Treat Our dermatologists specialize in treating a variety of conditions affecting skin of color, including the following: cosmetic concerns, including skin aging and wrinkles keloids and hypertrophic scars dermatosis papulosa nigra, which are small, dark bumps that commonly appear on the face and neck , including central centrifugal cicatricial alopecia and traction alopecia hidradenitis suppurativa, a condition in which painful boils and scars form in skin folds skin discoloration, such as melasma hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation irritation of the skin and hair follicles, including conditions such as pseudofolliculitis barbae and acne keloidalis nuchae and other Our doctors are experts in advanced treatments including laser procedures, minimally invasive cosmetic procedures, surgery, phototherapy, liquid nitrogen treatments, and steroid injections. Our Skin of Color Team We specialize in providing dermatologic services for skin of color. Prince Adotama, MD Dermatology, Skin of Color Services, Skin Autoimmune Disorders Lisa O. Akintilo, MD Cosmetic Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Avrom S. Caplan, MD Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Daniel Gutierrez, MD Dermatology, Cosmetic Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Nayoung Lee, MD Dermatologic Surgery, Cosmetic Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Whether you’re playing pickleball, picking up a toddler, or hoisting a suitcase into the overhead bin, life can be tough on your joints and muscles. If you experience pain or stiffness when you move, you may need to see an orthopedic doctor. Specialists at offer nonsurgical treatments, including medications and injections, to relieve acute and chronic conditions of the bones, muscles, joints, tendons, and ligaments. When surgery is needed, our renowned team of specialized orthopedic surgeons provide excellent outcomes in joint replacements and surgical treatment for fractures, spinal disorders, and sports injuries. With the right care plan, our specialists will help you manage your orthopedic condition or injury and get you back to the activities you enjoy. Before seeing us, you may need to schedule an appointment with a primary care doctor or other provider for a referral to the right type of specialist for your symptoms. You can also explore our team of specialists to schedule an appointment directly . Some subspecialists, such as our spine surgeons, require a referral and imaging tests before an office visit. When to Consider Seeing an Orthopedic Doctor You may want to see an orthopedic doctor if you have: muscle, joint, or bone pain in your hips, knees, ankles, wrists, shoulders, or back instability when walking or standing loss of range of motion in your hips, knees, ankles, wrists, or shoulders a loud pop or popping sensation in your knees or shoulders severe pain that keeps you from participating in an activity, even just walking swelling of your joints back pain plus other symptoms, such as loss of bladder or bowel control, fever, chills, or night sweats a broken bone from traumatic injury sports-related injuries Which Type of Orthopedic Specialist Will You See? The type of orthopedic specialist you see at NYU Langone depends on your symptoms and what other providers, if any, you have already seen for treatment. Back Pain Relief , your primary care provider may refer you to initially for physical or occupational therapy at NYU Langone’s . If this approach does not provide adequate relief or if your symptoms are more complex, your doctor may order imaging exams and refer you to a with specific training in treating the conditions that cause back pain, including If you have shoulder or elbow stiffness or pain, your primary care provider may refer you to one of our specialists in . Advanced training allows our doctors to manage conditions such shoulder sprains and strains . Medications, injections, physical or occupational therapy, or surgery may be part of your treatment plan. Help for Hips and Knees Hip pain may be a symptom of , while knee instability or pain may be a sign of an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tear . When medical treatment or physical or occupational therapy are no longer effective, our hip and knee reconstruction specialists can determine whether joint replacement surgery is necessary, and offer minimally invasive and other advanced procedures as part of your plan. Rheumatoid Arthritis Relief If you have joint pain in many joints in your body, your primary care doctor may refer you to a who specializes in , a condition that causes the immune system to mistakenly attacks healthy joints. If you need further treatment, your rheumatologist may refer you to an orthopedic surgeon for joint replacement surgery. Specialty Care for Everyday Athletes If musculoskeletal pain is keeping you from participating in your favorite sport or activity, your doctor may refer you to a sports medicine doctor . These orthopedic specialists treat everyday athletes with all types of sports-related injuries, such as sprains, strains, tears, and breaks—with or without surgery. At NYU Langone, sports medicine doctors work as a team with highly trained physical therapists, nutritionists, and other support specialists, who take the time to understand how your pain impacts your life and goals, and how they can help you achieve them. Pediatric Dermatology Services At NYU Langone, our pediatric dermatologists provide expert and compassionate care for children of all ages. Our pediatric dermatology team treats children in our outpatient offices and through , which allows for seamless coordination among parents, patients, and physicians. Our pediatric dermatologists treat all skin conditions for children and adolescents, including rare or complex conditions. As part of one of the oldest pediatric dermatology practices in the country, our doctors have extensive experience evaluating and treating all skin conditions, as well as hair and nail disorders. Our doctors routinely treat common disorders such as , as well as uncommon birthmarks and rare genetic or inflammatory skin disorders. Our experience allows us to bring advances in the field to the bedside to provide the most up-to-date approach to caring for your child. NYU Langone’s pediatric dermatologists are deeply committed to creating a nurturing and educational environment for children and their families. We strive to understand your child’s skin condition within the context of their overall health, happiness, and wellbeing. We also pride ourselves in taking the time to educate families about their child’s skin condition. Our doctors are recognized leaders in their fields, routinely lecturing at local, national, and international dermatologic meetings. They are also active members in the American Academy of Dermatology and the Society for Pediatric Dermatology. Our Pediatric Dermatology Specialties Our pediatric dermatologists are experts at diagnosing and treating skin diseases that affect children and adolescents, including the following: , including moles, vascular anomalies such as port-wine stains, and hemangiomas atopic dermatitis and eczema and hair diseases, such as alopecia areata genetic skin disorders pigmentation disorders, such as skin infections, including warts, molluscum, and fungal infections Our Pediatric Dermatology Team Our pediatric dermatologists are board-certified in both dermatology and pediatric dermatology, and have specialized training that allows them to make the most sophisticated decisions for treatment options. 212-263-5250 212-263-1003 Dermatology Services Our dermatologists provide the highest quality of care and use the latest advanced techniques to diagnose and treat skin conditions Learn More About Dermatology Services The Skin and Cancer Unit of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology , founded in 1872 as the New York Skin and Cancer Hospital, is an outpatient dermatology teaching center located at NYU Langone’s Ambulatory Care Center East 38th Street Patients at the Skin and Cancer Unit, with its 150-year history of combining outstanding patient care with world-class medical education, are seen by both a physician undertaking advanced dermatology training, called a resident, along with an NYU Langone physician, known as an attending physician. The resident and an attending physician collaborate to provide diagnostic and treatment services for virtually all skin diseases in adults, adolescents, and children. These range from common conditions such as warts, acne, and eczema, to more complex medical conditions such as connective tissue disorders, pigmented lesions, skin allergies, and skin cancers. Our services include clinics dedicated to the following conditions: bullous (blistering) diseases like pemphigus and bullous pemphigoid complex medical dermatology problems connective tissue diseases and skin lupus genetic and congenital skin disorders hair and scalp problems leg ulcers nail problems pediatric and adolescent dermatology pigmented lesions skin sarcoidosis For people who need further treatment for skin cancer, we work closely with our experts at . We also collaborate with the Dermatology Clinical Studies Unit, which performs clinical trials and studies of drugs and medical devices aimed at treating disorders of the skin, hair, and nails. Orthopedic Conditions We Treat , our doctors have the experience and expertise to manage a wide range of conditions affecting the bones, muscles, joints, tendons, and ligaments. Blount Disease in Children Elbow Strains and Sprains Legg-Calvé-Perthes Disease in Children Spina Bifida in Children Our neurologists and neurosurgeons are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. When you have a brain or spine condition, you want the best care from the top specialists. Our neurologists and neurosurgeons are leaders in their field, and specialize in treating the most complex brain, spinal cord, and nervous system disorders in both adults and children. Our renowned team of experts brings people from around the country to NYU Langone, ranked as the No. 1 hospital for neurology and U.S. News and World Report From common neurologic conditions, such as to the most complex, such as , our team uses the latest technologies to make a diagnosis and create a customized treatment plan that is tailored to each individual. We offer advanced medical and surgical treatment options, and our doctors are guided by a simple philosophy: our patients always come first. We deliver the highest survival rates in the country for neurosurgery, with our experts using virtual reality to rehearse your exact procedure before you enter the operating room, and artificial intelligence to inform real-time decisions during surgery. Our unparalleled commitment to the best outcomes drives our neurologists and neurosurgeons to advance the standard of care for brain, spine, and nervous system conditions. Our experts use Gamma Knife radiosurgery for noninvasive brain surgery. Our surgeons perform ultra-minimally invasive procedures to treat several conditions of the neck and lower back. We provide the treatment and support you need when dealing with memory. NYU Langone Health’s Research at ASCO 2024 Clinical Trial Tests Noninvasive Glioblastoma Treatment Healthcare Leadership Nurturing a Culture of Highest-Quality Care Ilseung Cho, MD , a gastroenterologist, has served as Assistant Chief Quality Officer and now Chief Quality Officer for NYU Langone Health during a remarkable era for the hospital system. From its moment of near-collapse in the mid-2000s, NYU Langone’s Manhattan campus has transformed into a national beacon of care quality and innovation while the hospital system has grown substantial new footprints in Brooklyn and Long Island through major hospital mergers. Today, the fully integrated NYU Langone Health hospital system holds a nearly incredible set of accolades— ranked #3 in the country and #1 in New York U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals while receiving an “A” top-safety rating from Leapfrog ; a five-star CMS rating for quality, safety and patient experience; and Vizient’s #1 Quality ranking. Still, Dr. Cho explains that NYU Langone’s “secret sauce” for growing while advancing highest-quality care lies beyond all of the metrics in a unique ethos focused on providing only the best to each patient, their loved ones and communities. Here, Dr. Cho discusses his vision as Chief Quality Officer and what initiatives are on the horizon for the hospital system. Embracing Care Quality as a Mission Physician Focus: What motivated you to take on the work of a Chief Quality Officer? Dr. Cho: This work is very personal for me, just as it is for our patients and their families. I started having an interest in quality and safety after a family member of mine suffered a surgical site infection. When we were told that these infections almost never happen, that was of little consolation. It felt like something being said to make the surgeon feel better, rather than my family member. Metrics and rates are important for how the hospital runs, but to someone who suffered a complication of care, their personal rate is 100 percent. What I took away from that experience is that each of the quantitative measures we consider represents a real outcome for those who entrust us with their care. That is why the journey to constantly improve the quality of the care we deliver never ends. We should continually strive to reduce mortalities, reduce preventable harm, and improve the experiences that our patients have when they interact with our health system. “I started having an interest in quality and safety after a family member of mine suffered a surgical site infection. When we were told that these infections almost never happen, that was of little consolation.” How do you implement that personalized, patient-centered focus on quality in a complex and growing health system that runs, by necessity, on the capture of metrics and data? NYU Langone’s leadership has made an exceptional commitment to developing a culture where all clinicians and staff are encouraged to be open about communicating their challenges and successes. In my role, the most valuable information I receive often comes from the clinical leaders, both providers and nurses, who are frequently at the bedside. In a way, my job is to amalgamate all of the qualitative insights that come from our bedside nurses, NPs, PAs, residents, and others. For example, a recent conversation I had with one of our transport staff in an elevator uncovered opportunities to improve their workflow and efficiency. It was one of the most important discussions I had that week. That is why I say that even our most sophisticated dashboard or metric is not NYU Langone’s secret sauce. Our secret sauce is how we engage every clinician and staff member who feels dedicated to the service of helping patients and improving care. “Even our most sophisticated dashboard or metric is not NYU Langone’s secret sauce. Our secret sauce is how we engage every clinician and staff member who feels dedicated to the service of helping patients and improving care.” Righting a Flagship Hospital, Building a Quality-Driven Health System Looking back, how would you distill the strategy that has allowed NYU Langone to transform the fate of our main Manhattan hospital, which appeared to be very dire around 2007, while adding two other major hospitals with their own challenges to our system—and now achieving the same top quality and outcomes measures across the board? In my opinion, the change we’ve seen over the past 15 years has been driven by two primary components: culture and data. Culture defines what is important or not to an organization like ours. And we have planted our flag around providing the highest quality of care. Our culture reflects that. Our work to become a high-reliability organization reflects that. Every member of this organization from the senior leadership down understands that we are aiming to provide the highest quality of care because it is ingrained in our culture. Along with that, we have been very innovative about the use of data, metrics, and goal-setting. We’ve created a remarkable system to measure the quality of care, to identify whether we are adhering to our processes, and to share that data transparently with our teams in the form of dashboards. This is vertically integrated from our hospital leadership to our staff as well as horizontally across our entire healthcare system. Fundamentally, we expect that the quality of care delivered at each of our sites is the same. We have set the expectation that all our patients receive the same high quality of care, regardless of whether they come to us in Manhattan, Brooklyn, or Mineola (Long Island). This expectation of high-quality care holds as we engage in hospital mergers— a recent JAMA article highlighted our success in bucking the national trend of diminished care quality that often accompanies health system growth. “We have set the expectation that all of our patients receive the same high quality of care.” rankings reflect the aggregate performance of all our hospitals. This is, frankly, different from the way many other health systems operate, where they report only on their “flagship” hospital but not the other hospitals in the system. Advancing the Vision of a Healthier NYC What are your top priorities ahead to continue advancing quality and outcomes? Equity and healthcare disparities is the next challenge that we must and will overcome. We should be transparent about the fact that healthcare in this country has provided disparate and inequitable care for a long time. We have a moral obligation to address this and to eliminate biases wherever we uncover them, whether they relate to race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity. This is a challenge but I’m confident that, given the commitment of our leadership and staff, we can and will do better. Lastly, would you agree that in many ways the unique experiences of New Yorkers have shaped how NYU Langone embraces the model of a high-risk organization and the ability to adapt quickly and effectively to challenges? What health system has weathered events like the blackout of 2002, Hurricane Sandy in 2012, and the first wave of COVID-19 in 2020 with such strength and resilience? Not a day goes by that I’m not in wonder and grateful for the people we have here at NYU Langone. There is no hospital system better suited to take care of New York City. Our hospitals reflect what is incredible about New York, and our teams bring incredible energy and innovation drawn from the rich diversity of our communities. Our work ethic mirrors the grit that we see in our families and friends. Thank you for your time, Dr. Cho. Share This Copied to clipboard! Featured Experts Ilseung Cho, MD, is an associate professor of gastroenterology and Chief Quality Officer for NYU Langone Health. His research interests focus on the gut microbiome (the community of bacteria that live in the gastrointestinal tract) and how it affects health and disease. Specifically, he focuses on the effect of the colonic microbiome on metabolism as well as in the development of colorectal cancer through epigenetic mechanisms. Subscribe to Physician Focus Sign up for Physician Focus emails for practice-changing news and perspectives from our experts at NYU Langone Health. New Institute Advances the Goal of Optimal Aging Josef Coresh, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health. An estimated one in five Americans will be older than 65 by 2030, a major benchmark in an accelerating demographic trend that is fueling a surge of research on how to promote better aging. Getting older is inevitable, but biomedical research is suggesting that many of its consequences can be prevented or delayed. NYU Langone Health’s Optimal Aging Institute , which launched in 2023 under the leadership of Josef Coresh, MD, PhD , a professor in the Departments of , adds a powerful new force to the growing research focus. The institute aims to help advance the science of aging, identify the mechanisms that underlie optimal health and can become dysregulated with age, and translate its insights into improving health and prolonging lives. Here, Dr. Coresh discusses the institute’s focus and future. The Lifelong Process of Optimal Aging Dr. Coresh, how would you define optimal aging, and why is it important? Dr. Coresh: Optimal aging is trying to retain more function and then decline more slowly and live longer, with better health and quality of life. It pertains to quality of life, with an emphasis on prevention and health lifelong, rather than thinking of aging as just what we do at the end. “One of our central tenets is looking for the origins of optimal aging all the way from the beginning and collaborating across the lifespan.” One example is that one of the protective factors for dementia is more education from childhood. One of our central tenets is looking for the origins of optimal aging all the way from the beginning and collaborating across the lifespan. What do you see as the institute’s principal goals? The goals for the institute are to connect—to become a hub that connects excellence—and then to incubate ideas and innovation to create what I might call actionable research results. We have a very talented team that is highly collaborative across disciplines. I think to have global impact, you need to be globally connected as well. So by no means are we going it alone: we’re coordinating our activities with other universities and leaders and really working as part of an international effort. Our goal is to start with observations in people and then get the right kind of resources so that our answers are definitive enough that they can advance health and can become translated into clinics, populations, and policies. Addressing the Growing Burden of Dementia The institute is focusing on conditions like dementia, vascular disease, and hearing loss. Why are these so important? We try to focus on the most compelling public health and aging problems of our time, and in doing that, dementia rises to the top. Interestingly, dementia is very connected to vascular disease, where heart disease and stroke are leading causes of death. In between them is blood pressure control and vascular health. We’ve known for a long time that people who have a big stroke have a high risk of dementia, but people with high blood pressure can still have ischemic damage throughout the brain that may contribute to cognitive decline and dementia. Also, in collaboration with colleagues in otolaryngology, we’re planning to study hearing loss as a risk factor for dementia and assess how improving hearing may improve all of healthcare for older adults. Hearing loss can contribute to social isolation and other risk factors for dementia, and we’ve already demonstrated how a hearing intervention can reduce cognitive decline in older adults with hearing loss. NYU Langone is a lead institution for the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. How does ARIC further the institute’s aims? The ARIC cohort has been funded by the NIH since it started in 1987. More than 35 years later, the study participants are all over the age of 80. We’re currently looking at risk factors for dementia and integrating proteomics, genetics, blood pressure and vascular risk factors, hearing loss data, and other behavioral risk factors. We’ve had some major publications, including one showing the connection of high blood pressure in midlife to dementia later in life . We’re working on the lifetime risk of dementia and have shown an interconnection between vascular and Alzheimer’s dementia. In collaboration with Dr. Morgan Grams Division of Precision Medicine , we are hosting all the cohort data since inception. We are gathering raw imaging data for artificial intelligence (AI) analysis and building a hub with NYU Langone’s Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) to promote global collaboration. The Benefits of Controlling Hypertension Can you talk more about the role of blood pressure control in dementia prevention? Blood pressure control clearly reduces the risk of stroke and heart attacks. For dementia, the challenge has been that we think it might take decades to have the full effect. Often, the populations in trials haven’t been old enough to see that effect. But recent trials are showing that even starting in your 60s and even treating blood pressure for as short as four years may result in a significant reduction in dementia risk. “Blood pressure needs to be controlled to reduce mortality rates, and now we’re adding more information about its dementia connection.” That adds another compelling reason to treat what is the leading risk factor for mortality globally. Blood pressure needs to be controlled to reduce mortality rates, and now we’re adding more information about its dementia connection. Integrating Demographics, Wearables, and More What’s next for the institute? We’re going to recruit a demographer next because I think understanding demographic trends is important. We’re going to do a lot more with hearing loss, because I think that’s very addressable. Next, we’re going to work with precision medicine and AI to get more information from our clinical tools. We’re also looking heavily at wearables. Particularly in older age, there may be a lot of information that sensors can get us that people may or may not be aware of or able to self-report, like sleep, which has become a very important topic. The key is to address all of these in ways that can create synergies with diverse scientists and make a difference. Josef Coresh, MD, PhD, is the founding director of the Optimal Aging Institute and a professor of population health and medicine. He is an international expert in aging and vascular disease epidemiology of the brain, heart, and kidney. Latest in Geriatrics Tracking Down Risk Factors for Dementia The Optimal Aging Institute expands research on vascular risk factors for age-related decline with a $31 million NIH award. State Dementia Plans: Understanding Their Past & Improving Their Future Nationally recognized Alzheimer’s disease expert Dr. Joshua Chodosh discusses the public health response to ADRDs. Bridging the Care Gap: A Role for Geriatric Outpatient Clinics How integrated consultative care clinics can help expand access to specialized geriatric services. Tiny Human, Giant Steps The patient was born at 22 weeks and 5 days of gestation, weighing barely a pound and hovering at the cusp of viability. Prior to arriving at NYU Langone Health, he spent six weeks in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at another hospital, where he battled several complications of extreme prematurity—including chronic lung disease, bilateral retinopathy, and a grade 3 intraventricular hemorrhage. Like many babies who survive such difficult beginnings, he was left with profound developmental delays. After his release from the NICU, in the summer of 2020, he was referred to a local hospital for feeding therapy. His disabilities also entitled him to state-funded early intervention services, but the COVID-19 pandemic had brought the system to a standstill. “In cases where brain injury is a factor, it’s crucial to start treatment as soon as possible. This enables care teams to take advantage of neuroplasticity to maximize recovery and developmental progress.” Megan Conklin, PT, DPT “In cases where brain injury is a factor, it’s crucial to start treatment as soon as possible. This enables care teams to take advantage of neuroplasticity to maximize recovery and developmental progress,” says Megan Conklin, PT, DPT, associate director of pediatric therapy services at NYU Langone. “This baby was clearly not getting the help he needed.” Shortly before the child’s first birthday, the patient was referred to . There, a multidisciplinary team of specialists launched a program targeting his impairments in strength, posture, range of motion, balance, endurance, communication, feeding, swallowing, and cognitive skills. It would continue for the next two years. A Long, Hard Climb When the patient entered treatment, in early 2021, he was 11 months old; his developmental age, accounting for his preterm delivery, was 7 months. His functional abilities, however, lagged much farther behind. On the Rossetti Infant-Toddler Language Scale, his verbal skills were in the range of 0 to 3 months, and on the Peabody Developmental Motor Scales-2 test, he scored well below the fifth percentile. “He had difficulty with the most basic skills, like raising his head while lying on his belly,” recalls Allison U. Lam, PT, DPT, his primary physical therapist. In twice-weekly sessions, Dr. Lam and her colleagues set out to improve the child’s strength, coordination, and awareness of his environment. “We began with exercises addressing his overall weakness, such as picking him up in ways that facilitated activation of his belly muscles,” Dr. Lam explains. “As he got stronger, we worked on sitting and crawling.” “We passed information back and forth. If one of us was working on a skill, the other team would incorporate that focus into their session.” The physical and occupational therapy teams were in constant communication. “We passed information back and forth,” Dr. Lam says, “so that if one of us was working on a skill—say, trying to get him to engage with toys, or to use both hands for tasks—the other team would incorporate that focus into their session.” In November 2021, the patient started aquatic therapy to further strengthen his core muscles. Within a few weeks, he could pull himself up to a standing position. Once he could remain upright for prolonged periods, Dr. Lam determined that he could benefit from orthotics and referred him to pediatric physiatry, for comprehensive care led by Patricia T. Tan, MD , medical director for pediatric physical medicine and rehabilitation services at Rusk Rehabilitation. The physical therapy and physiatry teams collaborated to prescribe medical devices such as orthotics and assistive devices that helped get him crawling—and then walking—for increasing distances. “Our team performs comprehensive evaluations of the high-risk newborns, addressing concerns ranging from visual or hearing impairment to spasticity, muscle weakness, and gait abnormalities,” Dr. P. Tan says. At the same time, speech–language pathologists, led by Tina M. Tan, CCC-SLP , focused on improving the patient’s feeding, swallowing, and communication skills. Initially fed by a gastrostomy tube (G tube), he underwent a swallowing study to determine which foods and liquids he could safely eat and drink. Ongoing feeding therapy helped him develop the oral motor and swallowing skills he needed to ingest spoon-fed baby foods, chew solid foods, and drink from a cup and straw. By 29 months, he had acquired the communication skills of a typical 12- to 15-month-old—communicating with gestures, single words, and occasional two-word combinations; and following simple, context-related directives. The patient’s parents, meanwhile, were assigned to continue such lessons at home, a responsibility they embraced enthusiastically. NYU Langone’s social work and care management teams helped the couple, whose primary language was not English, navigate the intricacies of the healthcare and educational systems. The Power of a Team Approach As his third birthday approached, the patient underwent neurocognitive, behavioral, and physical testing to assess his readiness for preschool. Although his gross motor skills remained significantly delayed, he’d made remarkable progress. He could stand from the floor without assistance, ambulate independently across flat surfaces, and step over 2-inch obstacles. He could even navigate stairs, with close supervision. “Everyone saw this little boy as a whole person, rather than just focusing on their specific area of expertise. That’s what allowed him to really flourish.” The patient had also demonstrated significant improvements in feeding and was eating solid foods and drinking from a straw. He was able to reduce his dependency on tube-feeding, taking in most of his needed nutrition by mouth. In speech, reasoning, and other neurocognitive areas, his scores ranged from below average to low average. Strikingly, however, he exhibited 83 percent mastery of numbers, 90 percent mastery of colors, and 100 percent mastery of letters. It was time to take another giant step. In September 2023, the patient enrolled in New York City’s 3-K pre-kindergarten program, where he continues to thrive. “To me, it seems miraculous that he was able to gain the skills necessary to participate in school,” Dr. Lam says. “I credit our team approach. Everyone saw this little boy as a whole person, rather than just focusing on their specific area of expertise. That’s what allowed him to really flourish.” Pediatric Physical Therapy Megan Conklin, PT, DPT, is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric physical therapy, and associate director of Pediatric Therapy Services at NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation. Allison U. Lam, PT, DPT, is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric physical therapy and pediatric physical therapy supervisor at Rusk Rehabilitation. Patricia T. Tan, MD, is the medical director for Rusk Rehabilitation’s pediatric physical medicine and rehabilitation service. She is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine. Latest in Rehabilitation New AI Tool Measures Stroke Impairment in Less Than 60 Seconds An automated approach that uses AI could provide real-time feedback to improve rehabilitation training. Unique Study Tool Prepares Physicians for Sports Medicine Board Examination Rusk Rehabilitation’s board review course features lectures by leading experts—available on-demand to clinicians nationwide. Bringing Full Attention to Pediatric Chronic Pain Pain specialist Dr. Jinpu Li highlights how combining education, psychology, medicine, and rehab enhances pediatric pain management. New App in Development Aims to Offer Personalized Mental Health Support According to the CDC, 46 percent of all healthcare workers reported feeling burned out in 2022, up from 38 percent in 2018. Depression and anxiety are also common among health workers. These conditions not only impact an individual’s overall health, but they can also lead to poor workplace performance, patient safety concerns, and medical errors. Recognizing that employee burnout is becoming a critical issue for healthcare systems, Thea Gallagher, PsyD , a clinical associate professor of psychiatry at NYU Langone Health, is working on new and innovative ways to intervene and support wellbeing. Under new grant funding from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), Dr. Gallagher and her team are developing a digital wellness app, COBALT, to assess both subjective and objective symptoms of distress and burnout among healthcare workers. The mobile app will use artificial intelligence (AI) technologies to provide personalized mental health resources and microinterventions —focused resources or exercises designed to be brief and minimally demanding. “Our AI-based smartphone app will deliver targeted content and group and individual support for the health and wellness of the healthcare workforce.” “Burnout rates are rising, and frontline healthcare workers are often hit hardest,” Dr. Gallagher says. “Our AI-based smartphone app will deliver targeted content and group and individual support for the health and wellness of the healthcare workforce.” Developing the App The COBALT app will integrate multiple data sources from its users, including self-report measures, video analyzed by the Facial Action Coding System for emotion recognition, and audio transcripts analyzed by natural language processing for phrases tied to mental illness. “The app will quickly and efficiently categorize levels of mental health using machine learning and AI and direct users to personalized resources,” explains Dr. Gallagher. Active data will be collected at baseline and weekly, with passive data recorded via cell phone sensors and collected continuously. Once the models are trained on user-specific data, the goal is to use the app to detect, assess, and in some cases treat a number of mental health and wellness risks. “Incorporating COBALT into workflows could assist an organization in creating a culture of resilience and mental wellbeing.” “Incorporating COBALT into workflows could assist an organization in creating a culture of resilience and mental wellbeing,” says Dr. Gallagher. Early Success with a Web Platform Before joining NYU Langone, Dr. Gallagher played a key role in the development of a separate but related web platform, also called COBALT, while on the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania. The new app will build upon the success of the existing web platform, which is currently available to all NYU Langone staff. Dr. Gallagher emphasizes that with the integration of AI, the new app will be far more technologically advanced than the current web platform, which relies primarily on self-report measures. “All employees have access to the COBALT web platform, where they can complete wellness evaluations, and sign up for group resiliency sessions, mindfulness workshops, and other in-person offerings,” Dr. Gallagher says. She notes that users can engage with the platform as much or as little as they like. Everything that they view or engage with is anonymous and not connected to their name or identity, unless they voluntarily enter their personal information. Since its debut at NYU Langone, the COBALT web platform has been used by nearly 2,700 employees. Among these users, more than 500 have participated in clinical screening sessions. “Several thousand employees have utilized the web platform,” Dr. Gallagher says. “It is designed and intended to support, protect, and enhance the mental wellbeing and health of our employees.” Future Applications Although the initial phase of the DARPA project is focused on healthcare workers, Dr. Gallagher and her team plan to apply the app version of COBALT to address the mental health needs of other at-risk groups, such as active-duty military. “Long-term, we’d like to further develop the COBALT app as an evidence-based, scalable, mobile solution,” she says. “Leveraging this dataset may provide additional insights for personalizing the delivery of microinterventions that enhance wellbeing.” Thea Gallagher, PsyD, is a clinical assistant professor and the coordinator of digital mental health, outcomes, and wellness in the Department of Psychiatry. She specializes in prolonged exposure therapy for post-traumatic stress disorder, exposure and response prevention for obsessive compulsive disorder, and cognitive–behavioral treatments for other mental health illnesses. Latest in Psychiatry Dr. Charles Marmar on the Promise of Precision Medicine in Psychiatry The department chair discusses the current mental health awakening, his research on PTSD, and the future of psychiatry treatment. How Psilocybin May Modify Brain Function in Alcohol Use Disorder Source: Getty Images A recent study published in Scientific Reports has uncovered new insights into how psilocybin, the psychoactive constituent of magic mushrooms, may modify brain function in people with alcohol use disorder (AUD). Emerging evidence—including a first-of-its-kind double-blind placebo-controlled trial led by NYU Langone Health researchers and collaborators—has indicated that psilocybin could help sustain a reduction in alcohol consumption when paired with psychotherapy. The mechanism by which psilocybin therapy works on the brains of patients with AUD is still unclear. Functional MRI (fMRI) has offered initial clues into psilocybin’s modulating effects in nonaddiction populations. The new study is the first to explore the neural mechanisms of psilocybin-assisted therapy in AUD, according to the authors. “Our findings could pave the way for future hypotheses about psilocybin’s mechanism of action for disorders of addiction.” Michael P. Bogenschutz, MD “Our findings could pave the way for future hypotheses about psilocybin’s mechanism of action for disorders of addiction,” says , director of the Center for Psychedelic Medicine, part of NYU Langone’s Department of Psychiatry Mapping Networks Affected by Psilocybin The latest study was conducted within the framework of the larger double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, and led by Dr. Bogenschutz and Broc Pagni, PhD , a postdoctoral cognitive neuroscientist. The researchers collected fMRI data from 11 adult patients with AUD. Participants completed task-based blood-oxygen-level-dependent fMRI two to three days before, and one to two days after, receiving either 25 mg of psilocybin or 50 mg of diphenhydramine. During the psilocybin session, participants were presented with images of alcoholic beverages and pictures designed to evoke positive, negative, and neutral emotional responses. Across both alcohol and emotional cues, the researchers found that psilocybin increased activity in the medial and lateral prefrontal cortex and left caudate, and decreased activity in the insular, motor, temporal, parietal, and occipital cortices and in the cerebellum. They also reported that in the case of positive cues, psilocybin increased participants’ right hippocampus activity and decreased left hippocampus activity. In response to negative cues, psilocybin increased activity in the supramarginal gyrus. Interpreting the Results According to Dr. Pagni, greater engagement of the prefrontal cortex and caudate and disengagement of the insula, motor, and cerebellar areas might suggest that psilocybin enhances executive control and diminishes craving. However, he notes that fMRI tasks that tap into these specific processes are needed to support these inferences. He further explains that the results suggest psilocybin’s effects on neural responses are largely consistent across stimulus type—an unexpected finding. “Consistently overlapping regions could reflect alterations to the saliency of visual stimuli, affective processing, or a general mood stabilizing effect.” “We were expecting to see deactivation across brain regions that are hyperactive while viewing alcohol cues in AUD, but this was not the case,” says Dr. Pagni. “Consistently overlapping neural responses across the stimulus types could reflect alterations to the saliency of visual stimuli, affective processing, or a general mood-stabilizing effect.” While the findings are intriguing, the researchers caution that these data are preliminary, and warrant replication in larger and more diverse samples before they can be accepted as generalizable. Opportunities for Intervention The investigators note that future research in this area holds potential to elucidate the etiology of AUD, and more broadly, identify novel neural targets to facilitate precision-based treatment for disorders of addiction. While medications exist for AUD, the effect sizes of currently approved treatments are small and limited to specific subpopulations, Dr. Bogenschutz explains. The team plans to conduct a larger trial with more robust analyses and end points—continuing to map the neural mechanisms of psilocybin in response to alcohol and emotional cues, but also tracking clinical outcomes over time. “We believe this trial will address significant questions regarding psilocybin’s effects on global brain functioning,” says Dr. Bogenschutz, “and serve as a valuable resource for psilocybin-based addiction research in the future.” Disclosures Dr. Bogenschutz is named as inventor on patent applications relating to the use of psilocybin for AUD, but has waived all rights and has no prospect of financial benefit. Michael P. Bogenschutz, MD, is a professor of psychiatry and the director of the NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine. His research centers around pharmacologic and psychosocial interventions to treat substance use disorders and other mental health conditions. Psychiatry, Cognitive Neuroscience Broc Pagni, PhD, is a postdoctoral cognitive neuroscientist at the NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine. His research focuses on identifying therapeutic psychological and neural mechanisms of psychedelic-assisted treatments. Conferences & Events NYU Langone Health Presenters at the APA 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health psychiatrists who joined international colleagues in New York City, May 4 to 8. Toddler with Alagille Syndrome Bounces Back After Split Liver Transplant The patient at his third birthday celebration. Source: NYU Langone Health A toddler with end-stage liver disease secondary to Alagille syndrome experienced a smooth recovery after surgeons at NYU Langone Health teamed up to perform a successful split liver transplant. The 2-year-old patient was referred to the for evaluation by Adam Griesemer, MD Alejandro Torres-Hernandez, MD , attending surgeons on the case. “The patient’s recovery has been remarkable,” says Dr. Griesemer. “His quality of life has improved far sooner than would have been expected, and he remains playful and full of energy.” Nadia Ovchinsky, MD Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology , had been following this transplant patient since infancy. Alagille syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder that carries a mortality rate of up to 10 percent, runs in his family. “The degree of his liver disease, intractable itching, and severe failure to thrive were clear indicators that a liver transplant was needed.” “Liver transplant was a challenging decision for this family,” says Dr. Ovchinsky. “However, the degree of his liver disease, intractable itching, and severe failure to thrive were clear indicators that a liver transplant was needed.” Success Despite Risks The team anticipated an elevated risk of transplant-related complications due to the complex presentation of Alagille syndrome and the patient’s poor nutritional status. Despite months of aggressive supplementation, the patient consistently remained well below the first percentile for both height and weight. In addition to significant failure to thrive, he had renal tubular acidosis, pulmonary artery stenosis, fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies, and severe intractable pruritis. “Our team is well known for successfully executing these complicated procedures.” “We had a thorough discussion with the patient’s family, addressing the specific risks related to the split liver transplant and the potential advantages,” says Dr. Torres-Hernandez. “Our team is well known for successfully executing these complicated procedures.” The Split Liver Transplant After the patient was listed for transplantation, the team waited for the first appropriate organ offer. Within a month, the patient was offered a healthy adult liver for transplant. The organ would be too big for the recipient unless it was split into two, allowing both halves to be used for two different patients. For the pediatric recipient, the split graft was a left lateral lobe with a single left hepatic vein. For the adult patient, the split graft was the right lobe. “About 50 percent of liver transplants performed on children under the age of eight involve splitting a deceased donor’s liver,” Dr. Griesemer adds. “Split liver transplantation is an effective strategy to reduce the donor organ shortage and waitlist mortality, especially for pediatric patients.” During the surgery, the patient’s liver was completely removed. The left lateral segment graft was then transplanted to the recipient. “The size of the donor’s left lateral segment was almost exactly the same size as a normal liver for the age of the recipient,” says Dr. Griesemer. A Flawless Procedure After restoring blood flow to the transplant, the liver had excellent perfusion and immediately started to function well. According to Dr. Griesemer, the procedure’s success can be attributed to the collaboration and hard work of multiple team members, including surgeons, anesthesiologists, surgical assistants, scrub nurses, and leaders outside of the operating room. “The procedure was executed flawlessly,” says Dr. Griesemer. “Going in, we were confident in our team’s approach, and we planned this well.” “Going in, we were confident in our team’s approach, and we planned this well.” Nine months after surgery, the patient’s recovery has been excellent, marked by consistent improvements in clinical and functional measures. “The patient’s quality of life has returned to normal, and he is meeting developmental milestones as expected,” says Dr. Ovchinsky. In the coming months, NYU Langone will launch a new program to improve care for those with Alagille syndrome, offering specialized support for both pediatric and adult patients. Dr. Ovchinsky, who will lead the initiative, explains that specialized care will include experts in hepatology, surgery, nephrology, and cardiology. Transplant Surgery, Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Adam Griesemer, MD, is an associate professor of surgery and the surgical director of the Pediatric Transplant Institute. He specializes in pediatric liver transplant surgery. Alejandro Torres-Hernandez, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of surgery. He specializes in laparoscopic liver surgery and liver transplantation. Pediatric Hepatology Nadia Ovchinsky, MD, is a professor of pediatrics and director of the Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology. She specializes in pediatric liver diseases, including biliary atresia, Alagille syndrome, and acute and chronic liver failure. Latest in Pediatrics Epilepsy Expert Strives to Improve Access to Surgical Care Dr. Cigdem Akman, medical director of the Pediatric Epilepsy Surgery Program, on optimizing treatment for kids—and winning their parents' trust. When Sacrocolpopexy Is the Best Choice for Post-Cystectomy Prolapse CT scan of the patient's Indiana Pouch. Source: NYU Langone Health As long-term survival following treatment for muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) continues to improve, urogynecologists may more frequently encounter post-cystectomy prolapse. Therefore, it is crucial to understand treatment options and align them with a patient’s lifestyle and sexual health priorities. In this Case of the Month, we describe a young, physically and sexually active patient with post-cystectomy prolapse who successfully underwent robotic sacrocolpopexy. The procedure carried risks due to her surgically distorted anatomy and anticipated peritoneal adhesions. But collaboration with reconstructive urology made for a safe and effective surgery, and the patient continues to experience symptomatic relief nearly four years later. Below, we detail the procedure and why it was the best option. We also discuss the unique considerations of all available treatments, including vaginal pessaries, colpocleisis, and native tissue repair. We hope this case encourages other providers to consider that when sacrocolpopexy is the best option, a team-based approach can deliver success. Case Highlights: A 53-year-old MIBC survivor with vaginal protrusion was dissatisfied with a vaginal pessary and sought surgical intervention. Sacrocolpopexy was elected due to its durability and the patient’s desire to maintain sexual function. Urogynecology and reconstructive urology performed a successful procedure, which required unique port placement to accommodate distorted anatomy and extensive enterolysis due to peritoneal adhesive disease. As bladder cancer survivorship improves, the prevalence of post-cystectomy prolapse may rise; understanding treatment options and their relative risks and benefits is paramount. Background: Post-Cystectomy Prolapse In the female patient, radical cystectomy for MIBC traditionally involves en bloc resection of the bladder, urethra, uterus, cervix, bilateral adnexa, and anterior vaginal wall. This results in an anterior vaginal defect, which is closed by mobilizing a portion of the posterior vagina to create a vascularized flap. While reproductive organ sparing (ROS) cystectomy has gained popularity for patients with clinically localized disease, it is not yet considered standard of care, and most urologic oncologists report they do not routinely perform ROS cystectomy, even in eligible patients. A necessary consequence of radical cystectomy is that crucial vaginal support structures are excised or disrupted including DeLancey’s level I and level II support (see DeLancey’s Three Levels of Support below). After their operation, patients therefore have only distal vaginal support, likely putting them at increased risk for the development of prolapse. Because prolapse in patients with a history of radical cystectomy is poorly reported in the literature, the true incidence is unknown, but may be as high as 23 percent. DeLancey’s Three Levels of Support In 1992, Dr. John DeLancey described three distinct anatomic structures thought to be responsible for vaginal support. Level I includes the cardinal/uterosacral ligament complex and supports the vaginal apex. Level II supports the mid-vagina via the endopelvic fascia and its attachments to the lateral pelvic sidewalls at the arcus tendineus fascia pelvis. Level III provides distal vaginal support and is composed of vaginal attachments to the perineal membrane and perineal body. Dr. DeLancey’s framework remains foundational to understanding the anatomic structures, whose failure may contribute to the development of pelvic organ prolapse. Case Presentation The 53-year-old patient presented to the urogynecology clinic in 2020 complaining of bothersome vaginal protrusion. She had a history of two pregnancies (both cesarean deliveries), was sexually active, and a former smoker (>30 pack years). In 2018, she was treated for MIBC with radical cystectomy/urethrectomy, hysterectomy, bilateral salpingectomy, flap vaginoplasty, and continent cutaneous urinary diversion (Indiana Pouch). She was initially fitted with a ring with support pessary but was unhappy with this method of symptom relief and desired surgical intervention. The options for surgical management were reviewed in detail, with the understanding that outcomes data in this specific population are extremely sparse. The patient worked a physically demanding job and wished to retain the capacity for vaginal intercourse, making her a poor candidate for native tissue repair and ineligible for obliterative repair such as colpocleisis. Vaginally placed mesh products, which would have allowed for prolapse repair without necessitating peritoneal access, had been removed from the market by the FDA one year before. Ultimately, mesh-based repair with sacrocolpopexy was selected for its improved durability; however, this approach carried known risks, particularly given her surgically distorted anatomy and anticipated peritoneal adhesive disease. Robotic Sacrocolpopexy A multidisciplinary approach was planned. Urogynecology partnered with reconstructive urology, the service that had performed her continent cutaneous urinary diversion, in order to ensure safe peritoneal access and lysis of adhesions. She also had a known parastomal hernia, and concomitant repair was planned. Her Indiana Pouch, which was located on the right, occupied most of the right lower quadrant, requiring planned adjustments to robotic port placement (Figure 1). Figure 1: A CT scan of the patient’s abdomen/pelvis with IV contrast demonstrating location and size of the Indiana Pouch. Overlaid with approximate location of robotic ports. Source: NYU Langone Health Sagittal imaging suggested the pouch would be adherent to the anterior abdominal wall and would therefore not impact sacral dissection or mesh placement along the right pelvic sidewall (Figure 2). Her stoma was located in the midline, at the umbilicus. Figure 2: Sagittal imaging demonstrating the Indiana Pouch located along the patient’s right anterior abdominal wall. Source: NYU Langone Health After induction of general anesthesia, a 14 French foley catheter was placed through the stoma to drain the neobladder intraoperatively. Peritoneal access was gained through an open approach at Palmer’s Point and allowed careful inspection of the peritoneal cavity, which revealed marked adhesive disease around the Indiana Pouch and throughout the anterior abdomen and pelvis. The sacral promontory and right pelvic sidewall were relatively spared. Additional robotic ports were placed a minimum of 8 cm from one another, all on the left side of the abdomen to avoid injury to the Indiana Pouch (Figure 1). The reconstructive urology team performed extensive lysis of adhesions to mobilize the small bowel out of the pelvis, expose the vagina, and expose the stoma for parastomal hernia repair. The small bowel was so densely adherent to the vaginal apex that an intentional vaginotomy (colpotomy) was required, which was repaired with absorbable suture in two layers before mesh placement. Anterior vaginal dissection was not required, given the absence of the bladder and urethra. The rectovaginal space was dissected in the usual fashion; this space was not significantly scarred. An ultra-lightweight Y-shaped polypropylene mesh was introduced and attached to the vagina with interrupted CV-2 Gore-Tex sutures. After dissection of the peritoneum and fibroadipose tissue from the presacral space, CV-2 Gore-Tex was used to suspend the mesh to the anterior longitudinal ligament overlying the upper third of the S1 vertebra. Reperitonealization of the mesh was attempted in order to minimize the risk of further bowel adhesive disease. The sacral arm of the mesh was covered with peritoneum without difficulty. Given the prior radical anterior pelvic surgery, we were not able to sufficiently mobilize peritoneum to cover the vaginal portion of the mesh. A flap of fibroadipose tissue from the lower anterior abdominal wall was mobilized and used to cover the majority of the mesh. A surgical adhesion barrier was placed over the remaining exposed mesh. The patient had an uneventful recovery and remains free from prolapse symptoms and without evidence of recurrent bladder cancer nearly four years later. Discussion In this case of post-cystectomy prolapse, the patient expressed dissatisfaction with a vaginal pessary and sought a surgical intervention that would have little impact on her sexual health. Sacrocolpopexy provided a durable treatment and was successfully performed using an interdisciplinary approach to address the altered anatomy. The case illustrates why selecting an approach to treatment for pelvic organ prolapse in a patient with prior radical cystectomy requires an understanding of patient-specific risk factors, lifestyle, and symptom relief priorities. Data specific to this patient population is extremely limited, but virtually all treatment options have unique considerations. Vaginal Pessaries: All patients with prolapse should be counseled about the safety and availability of vaginal pessaries for symptomatic relief, and those with a history of radical cystectomy are no exception. The two measurements most reliably associated with the ability to successfully use a vaginal pessary are the genital hiatus (GH) and the total vaginal length. Patients with a short vagina and wide GH will not be able to accommodate a pessary large enough so that it would not be at risk for expulsion during physical activity or Valsalva. Following radical cystectomy with flap vaginoplasty, the vaginal length or width may be restricted, such that successful pessary fitting is not possible. However, the likelihood of successful pessary fitting in this population has not been studied. Colpocleisis: Obliterative prolapse repair with colpocleisis is a viable surgical option for patients with a history of radical cystectomy, but it is only appropriate for those who are certain they are not interested in future vaginally penetrative intercourse. Colpocleisis has extremely high success rates and does not require peritoneal entry, so it is therefore an excellent option for patients with complicated surgical abdomens. Long-term recurrence, patient satisfaction, and regret rates are favorable. Native Tissue Repair: Native tissue repair, such as the uterosacral ligament suspension and sacrospinous fixation, are plagued by high prolapse recurrence rates, and it stands to reason that durability may be further compromised following radical cystectomy due to the absence of pubocervical fascia. Vaginally placed mesh materials for repair of prolapse promised a more durable option for vaginal repair and have been performed with favorable outcomes in women with a history of radical cystectomy. However, studies of vaginal mesh for prolapse ultimately failed to demonstrate improved efficacy over native tissue repair, contributing to the FDA’s 2019 decision to halt all sales, distribution, and marketing of vaginal mesh for prolapse. Sacrocolpopexy: Sacrocolpopexy is, of course, potentially complicated by the risks associated with intraperitoneal surgery in a complicated surgical abdomen. Risks include injury to the neobladder, catheterizable channel, or transplanted ureters. There is also a risk of injury to small or large bowel or other intraperitoneal structures due to adhesive disease. However, sacrocolpopexy may present the most durable option for patients who wish to retain the ability for penetrative intercourse. In conclusion, treatment options for prolapse carry unique benefits and risks for this population and patients should be counseled that there is a paucity of safety and efficacy data to guide management. Ultimately, choice of prolapse treatment should be highly individualized based on an understanding of the patient’s anatomy and overall health priorities. References 1. Gupta N, et al. Clin Genitourin Cancer . 2023;21(4):e236-e241. DOI 2. DeLancey JO. Am J Obstet Gynecol . 1992;166(6 Pt 1):1717-1728. 3. Lipetskaia L, et al. Female Pelvic Med Reconstr Surg . 2021;27(4):e501-e504. 4. Richter LA, et al. . 2021;156:e20-e29. 5. Clemons JL, et al. . 2004;190(2):345-350. 6. FitzGerald MP, et al. Int Urogynecol J Pelvic Floor Dysfunct . 2006;17(3):261-271. 7. Song X, et al. . 2016;23(6):621-625. 8. Jelovsek JE, et al. . 2018;319(15):1554-1565. 9. Graefe F, et al. Int Urogynecol J . 2013;24(8):1407-1409. 10. Kuwata T, et al. IJU Case Rep . 2022;5(5):389-392. 11. Urogynecologic surgical mesh implants. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/implants-and-prosthetics/urogynecologic-surgical-mesh-implants . Accessed 8/22/2024. 12. Lee D, et al. Curr Urol Rep . 2019;20(11):71. Lauren E. Stewart, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and obstetrics and gynecology. Her clinical practice focuses on pelvic floor disorders such as pelvic organ prolapse, urinary incontinence and the sequelae of obstetric trauma. Latest in Urology Case of the Month TURED for Midline Prostatic Cyst Dr. Sadeghi-Nejad used the technique to treat a 28-year-old’s cyst-related infertility and ejaculatory symptoms. Jelmyto Helps Patient with Single Kidney Avoid Dialysis For Dr. Katie Murray’s 91-year-old patient with UTUC, Jelmyto provided confidence in cancer control after tumor resection. Boosting Erectile Function with a Healthy Plant-Based Diet Dr. Stacy Loeb shares how her patient was able to discontinue tadalafil after eliminating animal products from his diet. Four Minutes to Prostate Cancer Diagnosis Source: Getty Images. Prostate cancer diagnoses currently rely on time-intensive methodologies. Most biopsies are collected in an office and then sent off to a lab for processing before stained slides finally land on a pathologist’s desk for analysis. These workflows can take several days, causing critical decisions regarding treatment to be delayed. If pathologic analysis of prostate tissue could happen in real time, clinical decisions could be made within a matter of minutes, potentially improving oncologic outcomes. A team at NYU Langone Health and its is working to make this a reality. Their new research reveals that combining stimulated Raman histology (SRH)—a breakthrough in optics that allows for the imaging of fresh tissue—with artificial intelligence (AI) could allow clinicians to accurately detect prostate cancer in just under four minutes —without the need for pathological processing and interpretation. The effort is being led by urologic oncologist , and AI expert Daniel A. Orringer, MD . Dr. Orringer, a neurosurgeon at NYU Langone’s , is also pioneering the methodology for use in brain tumor imaging and diagnosis molecular classification of glioma “The possible applications are numerous.” “This approach marks an important step forward in prostate cancer diagnostics,” Dr. Taneja says. “The possible applications are numerous.” Pairing SRH and AI Dr. Taneja and his team, including former fellow Miles Mannas, MD, now at the Vancouver Prostate Center, hypothesized that an AI convolutional neural network (CNN), in combination with SRH, could address the existing challenges with real-time pathologic analysis of prostate tissues, including lengthy processing times and a shortage of pathologists with specialized training. In the recent study, the researchers developed a workflow for SRH CNN model development and testing, training the model on 303 prostate biopsies from 100 participants. The performance of the AI was then evaluated on an independent 113-biopsy test set. A previous report from the team confirmed that SRH images allow for the accurate identification of prostate cancer by pathologists. Remarkably, prostate biopsy images obtained through SRH could be generated within 2 to 2.75 minutes, and the AI system achieved a rapid classification of biopsies with cancer, with a potential identification time of 1 to 2.5 minutes. Moreover, the system demonstrated an overall accuracy of 96.5 percent in detecting prostate cancer, with a sensitivity of 96.3 percent and a specificity of 96.6 percent. The CNN’s accuracy matched that of four genitourinary pathologists interpreting the SRH images. Broad Applicability Future studies will focus on the ability of the SRH CNN model to inform prostate cancer grading, an area not addressed in the current work. With ongoing validation studies and collaborations, Dr. Taneja expects the system to have broad applicability in prostate cancer settings. For example, the approach could improve biopsy targeting and reduce the number of biopsies required to establish a diagnosis. The technology could also be applied to intraoperative margin assessment for both radical prostatectomy and partial gland cryoablation. “We’ve already started testing the system in cryosurgery,” says Dr. Taneja. “In these settings,” the authors write, “the identification of prostate cancer adjacent to treatment margin may guide further treatment, making the identification of prostate cancer within one minute invaluable.” Samir Taneja, MD, is the James M. Neissa and Janet Riha Neissa Professor of Urologic Oncology, a professor of radiology, and vice chair of the Department of Urology. He specializes in the detection and treatment of prostate cancer. Latest in Urology Histotripsy Makes Its Clinical Debut in NYC Histotripsy, first developed two decades ago, has emerged as a groundbreaking tissue ablation technology with diverse potential applications , from benign prostatic hyperplasia to cardiovascular disease and cancer treatment. This noninvasive, non-ionizing, and non-thermal ablation method is guided by real-time imaging. Using short pulses of focused ultrasound, it mechanically destroys tissue through cavitation. A cloud of rapidly oscillating microbubbles pulverizes the target into acellular debris, which is eventually reabsorbed into the body. In a milestone decision in October 2023, the FDA approved the first clinical use of histotripsy for the treatment of primary and metastatic liver tumors. NYU Langone Health’s is the first facility in New York City to offer the technique, which has several advantages over previous methods. “Histotripsy enables us to treat patients who are ineligible for surgery and who would not generally be candidates for ablation.” Brock Hewitt, MD, MPH Unlike surgical ablation, histotripsy causes no bleeding, and minimal pain or scarring. It eliminates the “heat-sink” effect that limits thermal techniques near delicate structures such as bile ducts or blood vessels. Precision is further enhanced by dose-related tissue selectivity, and by continuous monitoring via ultrasound. “Histotripsy enables us to treat patients who are ineligible for surgery and who would not generally be candidates for ablation because their tumors are in locations that are unsafe to target with thermal techniques,” says surgical oncologist , who co-leads the histotripsy team at Perlmutter with interventional radiologist Mikhail Silk, MD . “This method has the potential to be first-line therapy for smaller tumors in the liver, though clinical trials for that application have not yet begun.” A Surprising Immunological Effect The FDA’s approval of histotripsy was informed by the multicenter, international #HOPE4LIVER trial, with a primary endpoint of technical success within 36 hours of treatment. The study found a primary efficacy of 95.5 percent in the 44 tumors treated, with a complication rate of 6.8 percent (comparable to other focal liver therapies). Results at six-month follow-up are expected to be published soon. Evidence suggests the technique can also have a more surprising effect: training the immune system to destroy tumors elsewhere in the liver, by revealing antigens normally hidden behind cancer cells’ outer membranes. This mechanism could also potentially prevent recurrence. “Histotripsy has been shown to have abscopal effects in subjects with additional disease not targeted by the treatment.” “In preclinical studies, histotripsy has been shown to have abscopal effects in subjects with additional disease not targeted by the treatment,” says Dr. Silk. “The data on these potential benefits is preliminary, but it provides a promising avenue for further research.” A Precise, Streamlined Procedure Hepatic histotripsy is delivered using a system that includes an imaging probe, a programming station, and a focused ultrasound transducer attached to a robotic arm. At NYU Langone, treatment is administered in the interventional radiology suite. After the patient is placed under anesthesia and intubated, the team performs a diagnostic ultrasound. “If we can see the lesion, and it’s no larger than 4 centimeters, we can perform the procedure,” says Dr. Hewitt. “We can treat 50 to 60 percent of the liver, including areas behind the ribs.” Once the target zone is visualized, the device is programmed to guide the transducer, working in increments of 3 to 6 millimeters. To minimize respiratory movement that could interfere with accuracy, patients receive jet ventilation. The bubble cloud acts as a natural contrast agent, allowing clinicians to calibrate and assess the treatment as they work. “If we can see the lesion, and it’s no larger than 4 centimeters, we can perform the procedure.” Dr. Hewitt The procedure, which takes about two hours from start to finish, requires little recovery time. And because histotripsy enables the body to reabsorb the targeted tissue, rather than leaving a necrotized remnant, long-term complications are rare. Improving Outcomes and the Patient Experience These benefits help explain why NYU Langone became one of the first health systems in the nation to deploy the new technique. “We have a longstanding commitment to leveraging innovative technology, and we’re fortunate to have the institutional resources to make that possible,” says Dr. Hewitt, who also leads Perlmutter’s robotic pancreatic surgery program—the highest-volume practice of its kind in the city. “Our adoption of histotripsy reflects our central mission: to improve outcomes, and to optimize the overall experience for the patient.” Brock Hewitt, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor in the Department of Surgery. His research interests focus on improving outcomes in surgical oncology. Vascular and Interventional Radiology Mikhail Silk, MD, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Radiology. His research centers on improving diagnosis and treatment of hepatobiliary cancers. Latest in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Robotic Liver Resection Matches Open Surgery for Hepatocellular Carcinoma In a large study, both methods showed similar efficacy—with an edge for robotics in LOS and complications. Reevaluating the Routine Use of Open Colon Resection Study shows minimally invasive surgery has clear benefits in morbidity, mortality, and cost. Our Orthopedic Areas of Expertise we know that when it comes to orthopedic health, everyone is unique. That’s why we tailor our programs, services, and centers to match our focused expertise with your own, unique orthopedic health needs. Brachial Plexus Care Concussion, Fractures, and Trauma Dance Injuries Hand Care Joint Care Limb Salvage and Reconstruction Orthopedic Centers and Hospitals NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center NYU Langone Samuels Orthopedic Immediate Care Center Orthopedic Care for Children Regenerative Care Orthobiologics and Regenerative Medicine Physical and Occupational Therapy Physical Medicine Services Second Opinion Surgical Specialties Reconstructive Surgery Thank you for your interest in contacting NYU Langone Health. We look forward to addressing your question or concern. Please use one of the resources below to get more information, based on the nature of your inquiry. 646-929-7870 For help finding a doctor, please call 646-929-7875 search for a specific doctor . If you’re trying to reach a specific location, please browse our list of locations for direct contact information. 646-929-7880 Patient Relations at 646-929-7885 Medical Education Information 646-929-7890 admissions@med.nyu.edu Vilcek Institute of Graduate Biomedical Sciences (MD/PhD program) 212-263-5648 vilcek-info@nyulangone.org Residency and Fellowship Programs 646-929-7900 Continuing Medical Education (CME) 646-929-7905 Office of Alumni Relations 646-929-7910 alumni@med.nyu.edu Media Information Office of Communications and Marketing Fundraising Information 646-929-7955 Career Opportunities Human Resources 212-404-3618 (Recruitment and staffing) 800-367-5690 or theworknumber.com (Employment verification; our employer code is 13600) Faculty Group Practice NYU Langone’s Faculty Group Practice (FGP) members are a group of more than 3,000 doctors employed by NYU Langone. Other doctors on our website may be affiliated with NYU Langone, but be in private practice. The FGP office provides support to FGP practices throughout the tri-state area to keep them running smoothly for patients, physicians, and office administrators. Real Estate Development and Facilities askRED+F@nyulangone.org How One of the Nation’s Largest Neurology Residency Programs Equips Trainees for Success Arielle M. Kurzweil, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health adult neurology residency program , one of the country’s largest, is expanding to meet growing demand. In the next recruitment cycle, the program anticipates accepting 13 residents to train in Manhattan, 5 in Brooklyn, and 3 on Long Island Here, program director Arielle M. Kurzweil, MD discusses the distinctive program features—shaped by NYU Langone’s location and approach to patient care—that position it as a top choice for neurologists-in-training. She also details how the program’s innovative curriculum prepares trainees for telehealth, leadership, and other essential skills. The Lure of Diverse Cases and Cutting-Edge Tech Dr. Kurzweil, NYU Langone’s adult neurology residency program attracts trainees from across the globe. What stands out about the program? Dr. Kurzweil: One big draw is the diversity—of New York City’s population and of the unparalleled diversity of cases we see, from simple to highly complex neurological disorders. Our residents regularly encounter the kind of “unicorn” cases that a practicing neurologist might never see in their career, while also gaining exposure to our subspecialty programs, such as neurosurgical and stroke care. Another draw is our institutional knowledge and innovative approach to care. Put simply, the same reasons patients seek care here—our high degree of expertise and access to the latest diagnostic and treatment tools—also draws neurologists-in-training. “The same reasons patients seek care here—our high degree of expertise and access to the latest research and diagnostic and treatment tools—also draws neurologists-in-training.” Arielle Kurzweil, MD By nature of our approach, our residents develop familiarity with advanced tools such as neuromodulation and high intensity focused ultrasound for movement disorders, and transcranial direct current stimulation for multiple sclerosis. They also observe procedures that are unique to NYU Langone, such as complex epilepsy surgeries through our —one of the country’s largest centers for focused epilepsy care. Exploring Unique Interests The program also offers electives and specific ‘tracks’ to residents interested in focusing their training. Can you tell us about those? For residents with a particular interest in global health or who just want to understand the specialty in a global context, we offer specialty training through the Division of Global Health . Two residents per year accompany division director Jaydeep M. Bhatt, MD , to resource-constrained countries such as Ghana and Uganda. Since neurology is a rare specialty in those areas, the residents gain the experience of both providing patient care with limited resources and educating fellow clinicians to do the same. Additionally, we offer both an education and a research track, with one resident per class in each track. In the education track, a resident interested in a career that incorporates medical education can further develop their teaching skills and work on an education-related project with a mentor. In the new research track, a resident takes on research more expansively, with dedicated time and mentoring to develop a project and scholarly publication. All of our trainees gain exposure to applied research through our patient-oriented research curriculum. That curriculum is integrated into our training throughout the year, providing residents with an overview of the basic principles of neurology research—and how they apply to clinical care. Practicing the Science—and Art—of Patient Care Neurologic disease can present with a wide range of symptoms, and many rare diseases fall within the specialty as well. How do you prepare residents to pinpoint a diagnosis and then manage often-complex cases? The multidisciplinary nature of NYU Langone yields the type of collaboration that is often needed to reach a diagnosis, particularly in rare or unsolved cases, and we come together quarterly to discuss those cases. We also emphasize to our residents that they need more than procedural skills in neurology to manage challenging cases and situations, they also need communication and interpersonal skills. “We also emphasize to our residents that they need more than procedural skills in neurology to manage challenging cases and situations, they also need communication and interpersonal skills.” New York Simulation Center for the Health Sciences (NYSIM) is a valuable resource that helps our residents develop these communication skills, ensuring they are well prepared for both the science and art of neurology practice. In addition to learning to run stroke codes or perform lumbar punctures in the center, they get to practice patient encounters and interactions with nurses and emergency department doctors. For example, residents interact with an actor playing the role of a patient whose workup indicates amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In a live simulation, a resident experiences what it’s like to deliver that difficult diagnosis and discuss next steps, refining their delivery as needed to ensure sensitivity and compassion along with medical accuracy. The need for these complementary skills has also grown with the increased use of telemedicine, particularly since the pandemic. Our teleneurology training guides residents through the nuances of a virtual exam, which they also practice through simulation center sessions. Fostering a Supportive Environment What about the residents themselves—what initiatives help to make the experience of training at NYU Langone resident-centric? It’s important to us that residents to feel supported and engaged throughout their training here. Our chief resident leadership curriculum supports residents transitioning to chief resident roles. These residents work alongside program leadership to manage various aspects of the program, and they serve as role models for junior trainees. The one-day curriculum for rising chief residents includes discussion of key leadership topics, followed by a simulation activity in which residents navigate challenging hypothetical situations with junior trainees and faculty. We were asked to present on this unique program at the American Academy of Neurology’s annual meeting earlier this year. We also take a deliberate approach to mentorship, fostering connections between faculty and residents, as well as between senior and junior residents. It’s part of our proactive approach to enhance the residency experience and prevent burnout. We even have a simulation on this topic, in which residents are challenged to identify signs of burnout in colleagues What is one of the most important lessons you’ve learned as program director? Overall, in my eight years as program director, I have learned that running a training program is a real team effort. Recruiting team-oriented trainees—and cultivating that team spirit—is crucial to success. Importantly, we work to balance inpatient and outpatient neurology training and optimize trainee education, emphasizing flexibility and openness to feedback and change. As a result, residents who graduate from our program tend to embody that sense of openness and adaptability as they move forward into their careers. Neurology, Neuromuscular Medicine Arielle M. Kurzweil, MD, is an associate professor of neurology and director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Neurology Residency. Her research interests include medical education and innovations in medical training, with an emphasis on utilizing simulation and teleneurology. Latest in Neurology Helping Families Achieve Excellent Glycemic Outcomes Mary Pat Gallagher, MD. Source: Hassenfeld Children's Hospital at NYU Langone is a leader in diabetes care nationwide. One of 33 pediatric programs in the T1D Exchange Quality Improvement Collaborative , the center’s success in achieving excellent glycemic outcomes is the result of deliberate planning, hard work, and collaboration. Here, pediatric endocrinologist and center director , who is also director of the Division of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes , discusses the distinctive features—shaped by Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital child- and family-centered approach to care—that position it as a top choice and model for pediatric diabetes management. You’ve led the Pediatric Diabetes Center since 2016. What keeps you motivated today? Dr. Gallagher: Managing diabetes in children and adolescents presents unique challenges compared with adults. Things like family dynamics, developmental stages, self-care skills, and supervision in educational environments are among the unique factors that must be considered. What keeps me going after more than two decades of practice is helping patients and families navigate the complexities of care. “What I find most rewarding is when a family expresses their relief and reduced stress after interacting with our team.” Along with that, what I find most rewarding is when a family expresses their relief and reduced stress after interacting with our team. We have a unique collaboration with our KiDS of NYU Foundation Integrated Behavioral Health Program, which provides on-site mental health services within the center. We want to provide families with support and education as part of their care in a field that is rapidly changing. That’s why the quest to improve the quality of the care we deliver never ends. The center has achieved outstanding glycemic outcomes for patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D). What actions are driving these results? First and foremost, we strongly support the use of the latest diabetes technology. We recommend that all of our patients with T1D use a continuous glucose monitoring device and hybrid closed-loop insulin pump. In New York State, public insurance has covered diabetes devices for years We are in a fortunate position to have this benefit, unlike many other states. Measure T1D Collaborative Goal Outcome Measures HbA1c < 7% 25% 44% Median HbA1c <8 % 7.3% Time in Range     >70% >25% 34% Process Measures CGM use >70% 94% Pump Use >65% 85% The T1D Collaborative set specific goals for outcomes and process measures. The performance metrics for Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital are listed in the far-right column, with all four measures achieved. Under our protocols, patients are placed on sensors right after diagnosis. Within six weeks of diagnosis, most patients will be using a hybrid closed-loop insulin pump. By making the use of technology standard, we have been able to help families achieve excellent glycemic outcomes. There is still ample opportunity to enhance patient outcomes. My expectation is that outcome measures will continue to improve as we develop new interventions and refine technologies, in addition to sharing best practices with each other through efforts like the T1D Collaborative. Education and patient support are also central to the center’s success. Can you tell us about these efforts? Our education and training start at the time of diagnosis and continue over the course of our relationship with the person with diabetes. The goal is to equip patients and their families with the necessary self-management skills. Our team personalizes diabetes education based on the patient’s age, language, family dynamics, and support system. We also focus on identifying and addressing differences in learning styles and neurocognitive challenges. This allows us to modify education and management tools based on the needs of each individual. “Our team personalizes diabetes education based on the patient’s age, language, family dynamics, and support system.” We also have the Helping Schools Care for Children with Type 1 Diabetes program, which equips school nurses and staff with the knowledge and training they need to support students with T1D. Our certified diabetes care and education specialists visit our patients’ schools to deliver this crucial education, ensuring children and adolescents with T1D can succeed during the school day. To date, the team has provided education and support for over 280 schools and daycare facilities throughout New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut. Last, we aim to be easily accessible to patients and their families, offering various communication channels to reach us, including text messaging during daytime hours. Research indicates that providing accessible care and timely responses to questions enhances a patient’s self-efficacy and ability to manage their condition independently. Regarding new interventions, the Pediatric Diabetes Center is among the few pediatric centers nationwide offering teplizumab. What has the center’s experience been in treating patients with this drug? FDA recently approved teplizumab , the first disease-modifying treatment for T1D—it’s truly a milestone in both research and clinical practice. While it’s not a cure, the CD3-directed antibody was shown to delay progression to stage 3 T1D in both adults and children age 8 years and older who had stage 2 preclinical T1D—defined as two positive antibodies and dysglycemia. The antibody is infused once daily for 14 consecutive days. Close supervision is required for people receiving this therapy, and given the specifics around dosing and administration, not all centers possess the specialized expertise to offer the treatment. Patients have been referred to us by many hospitals in the local area. Side effects are usually mild but can be significant, and consist of cytokine release syndrome, low white blood cell counts, and liver enzyme elevations. Anecdotally, most patients who have received the therapy seem to have tolerated it well. Finally, what does the open discussion and support from the T1D Collaborative mean to you and your peers? We are truly grateful for the continued support of the collaborative. From every part of the country, participating clinics are focused on one thing—improving the quality of life and overall health of youth and adults living with T1D. In a brief span of time, the learning collaborative has grown tremendously and is proving its ability to positively impact the lives of people living with diabetes. Mary Pat Gallagher, MD, is an associate professor of pediatrics, director of the Division of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes, and director of the Pediatric Diabetes Center. Her research and clinical interests center on children and adolescents with diabetes. To refer a patient, browse our Latest in Diabetes & Endocrinology Sleep Center Leads in Primary Aldosteronism Screening A screening protocol deployed in sleep centers boosts the detection of primary aldosteronism. Direct Evidence of SARS-CoV-2 in Coronary Arteries A recent study by researchers at NYU Langone Health provides some of the first evidence that SARS-CoV-2 can directly infect coronary tissue, including coronary immune cells. Their findings, published in Nature Cardiovascular Research , shed mechanistic insight into how COVID-19 infection contributes to elevated risk of ischemic cardiac events in individuals with atherosclerosis. “This is the first evidence of a possible direct linkage between SARS-CoV-2 infection, the inflammatory response, and cardiovascular events.” Chiara Giannarelli, MD, PhD “This is the first evidence of a possible direct linkage between SARS-CoV-2 infection, the inflammatory response, and cardiovascular events,” says study senior author and cardiologist COVID-19 and Cardiac Risk SARS-CoV-2 infection increases the risk of acute myocardial infarction and stroke for up to a year after the initial infection. Cytokine storms—an extreme inflammatory response arising from infection—are presumed to be a factor. But what happens at the cellular level in the vasculature? The new study was designed to uncover any direct impacts on the coronary vasculature, and researchers hypothesized that immune cells, such as macrophages, could be involved. Artificial Intelligence Amps Up Viral Detection Their analysis detected the virus within the arteries of eight men and women with a history of atherosclerosis who had died of COVID-19. The authors trained a neural network artificial intelligence program to measure viral RNA levels, specifically in cells infiltrating the arterial wall. In addition to infecting arterial tissue, viral RNA was also detected in infiltrating macrophages. “This study definitively shows that SARS-CoV-2 can infect and replicate in macrophages in the coronary vasculature of individuals with COVID-19,” says Dr. Giannarelli. “This study definitively shows that SARS-CoV-2 can infect and replicate in macrophages in the coronary vasculature of individuals with COVID-19.” Viral replication levels were highest in samples classified as “pathological intimal thickening with macrophage infiltration”—believed to be the precursor phase to atherosclerotic plaque formation Preferential Infection of Foam Cells Not all macrophages appear to be equally susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The study findings revealed that macrophages rich in engulfed fat, called foam cells, were infected more frequently and for longer periods than typical macrophages. According to the researchers, this suggests that the coronavirus may persist more easily in people with large amounts of plaque buildup in their arteries, partly explaining why those with atherosclerosis are more susceptible to COVID-19. Provoking an Inflammatory Response The experiments showed that in response to infection, the macrophages release cytokines known to promote a chronic immune response. The researchers note that two identified cytokines, interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-6, are tied to heart attacks. This heightened state of inflammation may facilitate the formation and rupture of arterial plaques, impeding blood flow, explains Dr. Giannarelli. Understanding of Long COVID “These results shed light on a possible connection between preexisting heart issues and long COVID symptoms,” says Dr. Giannarelli. “It appears that the immune cells most involved in atherosclerosis may serve as a reservoir for the virus, allowing it to persist in the body over time.” “The immune cells most involved in atherosclerosis may serve as a reservoir for the virus, allowing it to persist in the body over time.” As a result, the research team next plans to explore more closely this potential link between the coronavirus’s behavior during atherosclerosis and long COVID, whose symptoms may include heart palpitations, chest pain, and fatigue. Dr. Giannarelli adds that because the current study analyzed tissue infected with viral strains that spread throughout New York City early in the pandemic, the authors are investigating any differences after exposure to newer variants and the protective effects of vaccination. Cardiology, Pathology Chiara Giannarelli, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of medicine and pathology. Her research interests include immune mechanisms of atherosclerosis and treatment of atherosclerosis. 646-987-3538 Latest in Cardiology NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AHA 2024 Scientific Sessions See the NYU Langone Health experts who are joining colleagues in Chicago, November 16 to 18. Reassuring News on GLP-1 Agonists & Suicide First-of-its-kind meta-analysis finds no evidence of heightened risk in patients treated for weight loss or diabetes management. Clarifying the Role of Muscle Dysfunction in Vocal Trauma Aaron M. Johnson, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health Treatment decisions for voice disorders are largely based on either-or thinking: Is the problem due to injury to the outer vibratory layers of the mucosa or dysfunction of the underlying muscle? But , co-director of NYU Langone’s , suspects complex interactions between the mucosa and muscle may be in play that could inform new targeted therapies. “What we’re proposing is that there are mechanistic reactions of the muscle itself in response to chronic phonotrauma of the outer vibratory layers that may lead to functional deficits,” Dr. Johnson says. “So even when we think the cause of the voice problem is superficial injury, targeting the muscle may help treat an underlying, unseen, deeper, problem.” “What we’re proposing is that … even when we think the cause of the voice problem is superficial injury, targeting the muscle may help treat an underlying, unseen, deeper problem.” To test this hypothesis and others, Dr. Johnson was recently awarded a prestigious five-year grant of $3.2 million from the NIH When Phonotrauma Persists Injuries to the vocal folds may occur the morning after a night of cheering at a concert, baseball game, or other event, when people often wake up with a sore throat and raspy voice. “All of us experience what we call phonotrauma, which is when we use our voice with a lot of intensity or over a long period of time,” Dr. Johnson explains. In many cases, the symptoms of phonotrauma resolve with rest. “The fact that we don’t have voice disorders all the time is amazing to me,” Dr. Johnson says, “given our vocal folds collide with each other hundreds of thousands of times each day.” However, repeated phonotrauma can lead to phonotraumatic dysphonia, a specific voice disorder that causes an abnormal or hoarse voice. The disorder often affects those who rely heavily on their voice for their profession, such as teachers, singers, lawyers, and politicians. If left unaddressed, phonotraumatic dysphonia can further progress into vocal hyperfunction, which involves the dysfunction and tensing of the underlying thyroarytenoid muscle, the primary muscle of the vocal fold, as well as the surrounding musculature in the neck. Vocal hyperfunction has long been viewed as a natural behavioral response to phonotrauma. “But it can also exacerbate the problem,” Dr. Johnson says, “and create a vicious cycle of people straining more, which causes more phonotrauma, which creates more vocal hyperfunction.” Mucosa–Muscle Interactions To look more closely at a bidirectional relationship between the mucosal tissue and muscle layers of the vocal fold, Dr. Johnson is collaborating with Ryan Branski, PhD , vice chair of research for otolaryngology—head and neck surgery. The team’s initial in vitro cell–cell interaction studies focused on what might happen when fibroblasts from the mucosa and myoblasts from the muscle commingle. Published in the Annals of Otology, Rhinology & Laryngology their findings revealed that fibroblasts have a largely negative impact on myoblasts, potentially leading to a delay in the growth and regeneration of muscle. Conversely, the impact of myoblasts on fibroblasts was positive. “That study demonstrated that laryngeal myoblasts have a favorable effect on fibroblasts, suggesting that when the laryngeal muscle is healthy it may support a healthy mucosa,” Dr. Johnson says. “On the other hand, when there is muscle dysfunction, that may lead to a deleterious effect on the vocal fold mucosa.” “That study demonstrated that laryngeal myoblasts have a favorable effect on fibroblasts, suggesting that when the muscle is healthy it may support a healthy mucosa.” To clarify the mechanisms involved and identify potential therapeutic targets, the team aims to conduct follow-up studies characterizing unique fibroblast–myoblast signals and their interaction with inflammatory cells from the vocal folds. Elsewhere in the body, researchers have long known that muscle, such as skeletal muscle, is involved in an inflammatory response to injury. But Dr. Johnson says that “really nobody, up until our work, has looked at the response of laryngeal muscle to similar types of injury elicited by phonotrauma.” A Focus on Vocal Trauma Depth In another line of experiments, the team aims to compare how the thyroarytenoid muscle responds to both shallow vocal fold injuries and deep injuries that extend into the thyroarytenoid muscle itself. For this work, he and colleagues are leveraging Dr. Johnson’s experience with a unique behavioral model, rodent vocalizations Rats communicate via whistles in the ultrasonic range. The vocalizations, which resemble sped-up birdcalls, don’t rely on vibrating vocal folds but rather an air jet that resonates through a hole to create whistling noises. Although not a perfect approximation, the whistling uses the same muscles as human vocalizations, making the system a useful model for looking at neuromuscular changes within the larynx. Three rat ultrasonic vocalizations recorded in Dr. Johnson’s lab, combined and slowed down to a range audible to humans. Source: NYU Langone Health In their rat model, the researchers create a superficial injury to the outer vibratory layers of the vocal folds to approximate phonotrauma in humans. A second, deeper injury extends into the underlying thyroarytenoid muscle. The researchers then record the rodents’ vocalizations before and at multiple points after each type of injury to see how depth of injury affects recovery of the vocalizations. The team suspects that in both conditions, the frequency complexity of the vocalizations will be reduced because of changes in the muscle. They will confirm their vocalization findings with direct ex vivo measurements of the contractile properties of the thyroarytenoid muscle. Additionally, the researchers plan to compile and compare the full proteome of the thyroarytenoid muscle in both healthy and injured states. In a previous proteomic characterization of laryngeal muscles from rats , Dr. Johnson and collaborators analyzed the relative abundance of roughly 1,000 proteins, demonstrating how the same technique could be applied to do a deeper dive into the extent and nature of muscle changes after vocal trauma. “Collectively, these studies will help us understand the complex interplay between vocal fold mucosal injuries and the underlying thyroarytenoid muscle and hopefully lead to improved diagnosis and treatment of voice disorders,” says Dr. Johnson. Speech Pathology, Otolaryngology, Laryngology & Voice Aaron M. Johnson, PhD, is an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery and rehabilitation medicine who works as a clinical speech–language pathologist. He is co-director of the Voice Center and conducts research on phonotrauma, vocal training, and aging on the muscles of the larynx. Latest in Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Gene Therapy for Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy Shows Promising Results BB-301 is the first experimental gene therapy for OPMD to reach clinical trials. The first two patients treated exhibit improved symptoms. Groundbreaking ‘Liquid Biopsy’ Detects Platelet Hyperreactivity Referral Notes: The Platelet Reactivity ExpresSion Score (PRESS) is the first tool to assess platelet reactivity using genetic signatures. In one study to validate the tool, PRESS was higher in women who had a heart attack than those with stable heart disease. In another study, patients with atherosclerosis and a PRESS above the median were 90 percent more likely to experience a major cardiovascular event. The PRESS tool could enable more personalized treatment decisions, such as prescribing anti-platelet therapies like aspirin, based on individual platelet function. Cardiologists have long known that increased platelet reactivity is a risk factor for cardiovascular events, yet limited tools exist to identify individuals with a hyperreactive platelet phenotype. In a study recently published in Nature Communications , researchers at NYU Langone Health developed the first transcriptome-based test designed to do just that. The tool, dubbed the Platelet Reactivity ExpresSion Score (PRESS), uses the genetic signature of a patient’s platelets to assess reactivity, making it far more precise and less labor-intensive than conventional aggregometry techniques. “Our results demonstrate that this scoring system can circumvent aggregometry or other platelet activity measurements to reliably predict platelet hyperreactivity and the related risk of cardiovascular events,” says lead author Jeffrey S. Berger, MD, director of the . “It can be used successfully across populations, both in patients at risk of heart attacks and in healthy people whose future risk would otherwise remain unknown.” Aggregometry Challenges Although aggregometry is commonly used to detect insufficiently reactive (dysfunctional) platelets, routine measurement of platelet hyperreactivity has been infeasible to date. Aggregometry tests were not originally designed for that purpose, and until recently they lacked the sensitivity to determine how much reactivity was too much. Over the past decade, the field has shifted toward a more calibrated method: exposing platelets to a tiny dose of epinephrine, which weakly encourages aggregation. Experts have settled on 60 percent aggregation in a platelet sample at 0.4 μM (micromoles) of epinephrine as the threshold over which platelets are designated as hyperreactive. Still, the correlation between this metric and cardiovascular events remains uncertain—and a standard clinical test for platelet hyperreactivity remains elusive. Both deficiencies persist, in part, because results delivered by even the most sophisticated aggregometry techniques often vary from lab to lab. “This scoring system can circumvent aggregometry to reliably predict platelet hyperreactivity and the related risk of cardiovascular events” Jeffrey S. Berger, MD To overcome the latter obstacle, a team led by Dr. Berger and Tessa J. Barrett, PhD , conceived of a “liquid biopsy”—a test based on the platelets’ gene expression. “We thought this approach would be more reproducible than subjecting platelets to chemical exposure in a test tube,” Dr. Barrett explains. Test Validation In the current study, Dr. Berger’s team set out to answer three questions: whether patients whose platelets met the existing definition for hyperreactivity were, in fact, at greater risk for cardiovascular events; whether their platelets’ genetic signature could be used as a biomarker of hyperreactivity; and whether the patients’ degree of cardiovascular risk could be assessed using such a marker. The researchers began by using epinephrine-induced aggregometry to track the impact of platelet activity status on major adverse cardiovascular and limb events (MACLE) in patients with peripheral artery disease. MACLE was measured in this group of high-risk patients after they underwent lower extremity revascularization. Among 254 participants whose platelet aggregation was measured with 0.4 μM of epinephrine, 17.5 percent showed hyperreactive platelets. That cohort, the team found, had more than double the incidence of MACLE within 30 days after lower extremity revascularization than patients without hyperreactivity. Next, the team used RNA sequencing to search for genetic differences associated with hyperreactivity in platelet material collected from 129 of the patients. They found that 451 transcripts were significantly correlated with percent aggregation to epinephrine. The researchers designed the PRESS scoring system based on these results, then confirmed its accuracy by checking it against platelet aggregation tests. To further validate PRESS, the team explored the link between the score and cardiovascular risk in other patient groups. Among these was the Heart Attack Research Program, which enrolled women undergoing coronary angiography. In this group, PRESS was found to be higher in those who had a heart attack than in those with stable coronary artery disease. Among patients with lower extremity atherosclerosis followed for an average of 18 months, patients with PRESS above the median score were 90 percent more likely to have a major cardiovascular event than those below it. PRESS Forward Besides providing a potentially transformative method for assessing thrombosis-related cardiovascular risk, the PRESS test could help patients and physicians make better-informed decisions on treatment. One example is the question of whether an individual should take aspirin, which counters clotting but increases the risk of bleeding. “Our score has the potential to personalize cardiovascular disease risk prevention.” “Physicians currently prescribe this medication based on available risk factors, including high cholesterol or high blood pressure, which are not directly related to platelet function,” says Dr. Berger. “PRESS promises to help physicians tailor antiplatelet treatment to the people most likely to benefit: those with platelet hyperreactivity.” “A platelet-based test would help us optimize therapeutic approaches to fit each patient’s needs,” adds Dr. Barrett. “Our score has the potential to personalize cardiovascular disease risk prevention.” Tessa J. Barrett, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine and pathology. Her research centers on the interaction between myeloid cells and platelets, using in vivo models of thromboinflammation coupled with multiomic phenotyping to investigate how this axis contributes to cardiovascular disease. Jeffrey S. Berger, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and surgery and director of the Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease. His research focuses on discovering novel mechanisms of heart disease, peripheral vascular disease, and stroke. He is particularly interested in the etiology of unexplained thromboembolic disease. Advancing Auvelity, a Novel Antidepressant Alternative to Ketamine Although intravenous and nasally administered forms of ketamine and esketamine have rapid-acting efficacy for major depressive disorder (MDD), with intranasal esketamine being FDA-approved for this indication, their hemodynamic and psychotomimetic properties require a physician’s supervision, limiting their utility. Recently, the FDA approved a novel type of antidepressant—one that mimics ketamine’s mechanism of action, but without its challenging side effects. Auvelity is the first oral antidepressant that does not primarily target the monoamine neurotransmitters serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine. Instead, like ketamine, it targets the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, which regulate glutamate. “[With this medication], patients don’t need to come into a doctor’s office and be monitored for hours afterward. Having a pill that you can take at home is far less cumbersome.” Dan Iosifescu, MD According to , a professor of psychiatry at NYU Langone Health who co-led clinical trials for Auvelity, the new drug—a combination of dextromethorphan and bupropion—has several advantages. “It can alleviate symptoms more quickly than other oral antidepressants,” says Dr. Iosifescu. “It also has a practical advantage over ketamine in that patients don’t need to come into a doctor’s office and be monitored for hours afterward. Having a pill that you can take at home is far less cumbersome.” Previously, Dr. Iosifescu played key roles in the development of ketamine and esketamine as therapies for treatment-resistant MDD, overseeing a research program that produced several pivotal studies. These successful trials, in turn, laid the groundwork for Auvelity. Laying the Groundwork In their efforts to identify an oral alternative to ketamine that would not require stringent monitoring, Dr. Iosifescu and his team focused on dextromethorphan—a strong NMDA receptor inhibitor commonly used in cough medications. Because dextromethorphan is metabolized too swiftly to function as an antidepressant on its own, it would have to be combined with a compound that could slow that process. One candidate was quinidine, a stereoisomer of quinine, which blocks the enzyme CYP2D6. Dr. Iosifescu and colleagues first conducted an open-label trial of Nuedexta, a combination of dextromethorphan and quinidine used to treat pseudobulbar affect. In a paper published in 2017 , they reported that many patients with treatment-resistant MDD experienced significant improvements in mood. Soon afterward, Dr. Iosifescu was approached by representatives of Axsome Therapeutics, who were also investigating dextromethorphan’s potential as an antidepressant. The company asked him to help lead their trials of an experimental drug (later named Auvelity) that paired the chemical with bupropion, a norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor that also blocks CYP2D6. A Pair of Key Studies The FDA’s decision to approve Auvelity was based on two large studies. The first, with Dr. Iosifescu as lead author, was Journal of Clinical Psychiatry . In a multicenter phase 3 trial, 327 adults with MDD were randomized to either Auvelity or a placebo. After 6 weeks, Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) scores fell by an average of 16 points in treated patients, compared with 12 points in those taking the placebo. Nearly 40 percent of those taking Auvelity achieved remission, versus 17 percent with placebo. The second study, with Dr. Iosifescu as senior author, appeared in the American Journal of Psychiatry . It involved 97 adults with MDD who received either Auvelity or bupropion alone. At the 6-week mark, patients taking Auvelity showed a 14-point drop in MADRS scores, compared with 9 points for those on bupropion. Among the Auvelity group, 47 percent achieved remission, versus 16 percent of the bupropion group. In both studies, Auvelity was superior to the comparator after only 1 or 2 weeks, suggesting a more rapid onset of efficacy compared to other antidepressants. “These results showed conclusively that dextromethorphan, rather than bupropion, is the main driver of Auvelity’s efficacy,” Dr. Iosifescu explains. In both studies, Auvelity exhibited a side effect profile comparable to other oral antidepressants, with no indication of metabolic problems or increased sexual dysfunction. Next Steps Auvelity is now being prescribed as an alternative or supplemental treatment for patients whose symptoms are not adequately addressed by other antidepressants. Dr. Iosifescu suggests that it should also be studied as a maintenance medication for people who improved after receiving ketamine treatment as an emergency intervention. “In theory,” he says, “those patients could benefit from taking this drug regularly, or as a rescue medication if they suffer a relapse.” Dr. Iosifescu is a member of the advisory board of Axsome Therapeutics, manufacturer of Auvelity. He has received consulting honoraria from Axsome, which sponsored the trials spotlighted in this article. Adult Psychiatry Dan Iosifescu, MD, is a professor in the Department of Psychiatry. His research interests center on the development of novel treatments for severe mood and anxiety disorders. Bringing Women’s Cancer Care to the Forefront Elizabeth Comen, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Despite advances in breast cancer treatment that have significantly extended survival, much knowledge and research is still needed to adequately address the long-term impact of treatment and optimize women’s overall health. According to Elizabeth Comen, MD , newly appointed to the , those underaddressed areas are the product of a medical system that has historically overlooked the needs of women and minorities. Dr. Comen joins NYU Langone Health to build multidisciplinary partnerships to enhance women’s health—in and beyond cancer care. An esteemed physician and author of the recently published All in Her Head, which explores the history of women’s healthcare, Dr. Comen discusses how her research and advocacy for women’s health equity informs her practice as a breast cancer oncologist. The Dismissal of Women in Healthcare Dr. Comen , your research and recent book focus on inequities in women’s healthcare—specifically, the ways in which our healthcare system is designed to overlook or dismiss the medical needs of women. What led you to this research area? Dr. Comen: My deep interest in the history of medicine traces back to my undergraduate education, when I majored in the history of science; I was fascinated by how scientific discovery and medicine are intertwined with the fabric of society, culture, and religion. Later, as a breast oncologist, I began to hear heartbreaking stories of women dismissed or diminished within the medical system. For example, I saw a young woman whose diagnosis was delayed despite her concerns over a breast mass; she’d been told it couldn’t be cancer because she was “too young.” Countless patients have also expressed concerns about their sexual health going unaddressed or being brushed aside in the context of cancer treatment. Stories like these motivated me to explore the complex legacy of women’s healthcare, and how our medical system has historically overlooked the unique experiences and needs of women. “Women’s health has historically been the purview of the gynecologist, but in truth, we all—doctors across specialties—take care of women.” Women are from head to toe different from men, from our biology to our experience of disease. Yet beyond gynecology, the rest of medicine has been built around the 70-kilogram White male. Women’s health has historically been the purview of the gynecologist, but in truth, we all—gastroenterologists, cardiologists, neurologists, oncologists, doctors across specialties—take care of women. A Legacy of Misogyny How can medicine better meet the healthcare needs of women? It begins with simply recognizing the legacy of misogyny in women’s healthcare and the ways it manifests in the patient experience. Female patients are often told their fatigue is due to being a new mother, their pain is in their head, or that it’s “just” depression or anxiety. When in reality these patients may be suffering from treatable medical conditions, compounded by the dismissal or neglect they face from their doctors. With that recognition, there is an opportunity not only to change how we as clinicians approach the care of women but also to advance medical education and research by looking more closely at conditions or symptoms that we may be dismissing too frequently. The good news is, there is a groundswell of public support to advocate for the rights of women as full participants in their own care. Patient Engagement on a Personal Level How do some of these ideas take shape in the care you deliver as a breast oncologist? The art of being an oncologist is in recognizing that no two biological processes exist in a patient in the same way. Taking care of women in this context requires understanding people individually, at a human level. It means thinking about their cancer not only in terms of survival, but also in terms of what it truly means to live. Understanding patients’ fears, joys, and aspirations is essential to providing holistic care. I engage with patients on a personal level, exploring how each patient finds joy and what she is looking forward to. For example, perhaps there is a family wedding she wants to attend and wishes to avoid the heavy side effects of chemotherapy during that time. “When discussing personalized medicine, we often focus on targeted therapy and genomics. However, truly personalized care also involves planning a patient’s treatment so that she can prioritize what matters most.” When discussing personalized medicine, we often focus on targeted therapy and genomics. However, truly personalized care also involves planning a patient’s treatment so that she can prioritize what matters most to her in life. Enhancing Quality of Life What advancements do you celebrate in current breast cancer treatment approaches, and what do you think should be prioritized going forward? Breast cancer is an extraordinary example of a condition where we have greatly improved survival outcomes in both localized and metastatic disease, providing better, less toxic treatments. With that improved survival, we have an opportunity to help women thrive long after treatment, by prioritizing their overall health. Historically, the system has focused on curing women of their breast cancer but ignored other elements of their posttreatment wellbeing, such as sexual health, which is incredibly important. I’m energized in thinking about how we will not only continue to extend patients’ lives, but also improve the quality of their lives. Building Bridges Toward Equitable Treatment What do you hope to achieve at NYU Langone’s Perlmutter Cancer Center, both in research and in clinical care? If optimal cancer care means looking at the whole patient rather than a fragmented group of systems, NYU Langone—which prioritizes holistic care and interdisciplinary collaboration—is an optimal place to practice medicine. I am looking forward to collaborating with Perlmutter Canter Center’s incredible researchers, scientists, and clinicians to continue to bridge specialties as we consider how to care for the whole patient over time. Additionally, we have an opportunity to truly improve equity in cancer care. When you consider that Black women are 40 percent more likely to die from breast cancer, in large part due to access to resources, you begin to understand the intersectionality of misogyny, racism, and bias in medicine. With NYU Langone’s footprint both in and beyond New York City, we have an opportunity to meaningfully address disparities in breast cancer outcomes in novel and nimble ways. Elizabeth Comen, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and in the Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology and a member of Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her clinical practice focuses on breast cancer oncology and women’s health. Latest in Cancer ‘We Aren’t Afraid to Innovate’—How to Embrace Risk in Surgery T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Each year, first-of-their-kind procedures are performed by surgical teams at the . Notable cases include using a femoral artery homograft in a modified Blalock-Thomas-Taussig shunt (BTTS) , applying a novel approach to the Norwood operation for right aortic arch in hypoplastic left heart syndrome, and retaining a patent ductus arteriosus in a newborn to bridge time to heart transplant. Here, cardiothoracic surgeon , reflects on a notable complex case and shares his insights from taking risks to advance patient care. Of the many novel procedures that you’ve been involved in, which one stands out as being particularly memorable? Dr. Kumar: One case that comes to mind is that of a 22-year-old patient with stenosis of a single coronary artery following an arterial switch procedure as an infant. We used a femoral artery homograft for that repair . Using the graft was a unique approach that had never been described before, and we got an excellent result of a widened, normal-looking artery. “Using the [femoral artery] graft was a unique approach that had never been described before, and we got an excellent result of a widened, normal-looking artery.” As an infant, the patient had undergone a switch procedure for dextro-transposition of the great arteries (d-TGA). He began to experience severe chest pain and shortness of breath during exercise as a teenager. Our determined he had developed a narrowing of his single coronary artery. The artery split into two, with the right coronary artery being patent and the left coronary severely narrowed at its origin. Dr. Ralph Mosca and I performed the surgery together. We knew going in that providing the patient with a durable repair was a top priority. The patient was a young and extremely active individual—he was an avid runner and biked nearly every day to work. We wanted him to be able to enjoy that lifestyle. During the surgery, we realized that unroofing was not an option due to his anatomy. Bypass grafting was also not a great option at such a young age. We elected to enlarge the left coronary artery using the femoral artery homograft. The procedure went smoothly, we got an excellent outcome, and the patient is doing great. [ Read more about the case here. ] Let’s discuss the process of innovating in surgery. How do you approach the inherent risks of performing a new procedure? We aren’t afraid to innovate. But at the same time, we are not reckless. We weigh the pros and cons of a new procedure and spend considerable time thinking about it before actually executing it. We think of every possible step where things could go wrong, and discuss how best to prevent those pitfalls or overcome them if they do happen. In doing so, we minimize errors and maximize outcomes. “Success in any field is a mere reflection of the processes in place—be it sports or pediatric heart surgery.” I would also say that we do not hesitate to take the expert advice of our adult cardiac surgery colleagues when the situation demands. We tap into their expertise on conditions more commonly seen in adults than children. That is one of the advantages of being attached to an adult hospital. We collaborate well here at NYU Langone, and I think that’s one of the standout reasons why we are able to surge forward with more confidence. What motivates you to keep pushing boundaries in pediatric heart surgery? As a comprehensive program, we want to be able to cater to all the medical needs of our patients. We do not want to turn away a patient who comes to our doorstep for lack of medical or surgical expertise. We strive for the success of every child, no matter what it takes. When this happens repeatedly, it fosters a culture of excellence in the group. Success in any field is a mere reflection of the processes in place—be it sports or pediatric heart surgery. At NYU Langone, the processes we’ve established over time are key to our successful outcomes. Pediatric & Adult Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery, Cardiac Surgery, Pediatric Cardiac Surgery T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD, is an associate professor of cardiothoracic surgery and director of pediatric heart transplant. His clinical and research interests include complex congenital heart defects, arrhythmias, bradycardia, and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Calling for Uniform Prescribing After Cataract Surgery Source: NYU Langone Health Despite advances in surgical techniques, most patients still experience some degree of inflammation after cataract surgery. Currently, corticosteroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the two most frequently prescribed anti-inflammatory medications, yet there is no established consensus on the optimal regimen, dosage, or treatment duration. Christina R. Prescott, MD, PhD , director of the Division of Cornea Services at NYU Langone Health and vice chair for education in the Department of Ophthalmology , in collaboration with colleagues at the Johns Hopkins Wilmer Eye Institute, have brought attention to this issue, calling for clear, evidence-based guidelines. “There are no specialty-specific guidelines outlining what we should be prescribing after routine cataract surgery.” “There are no specialty-specific guidelines outlining what we should be prescribing after routine cataract surgery,” says Dr. Prescott. “Studies to identify best practices and inform guidelines are needed to offer patients the best possible care.” Practice Patterns With limited data to inform best practices, Dr. Prescott and colleagues took on the challenge of capturing current prescribing patterns. “We developed a survey that was distributed to members of kera-net, a global online platform sponsored by the Cornea Society,” Dr. Prescott says. Membership in kera-net is open to ophthalmologists specializing in corneas, external disease, and refractive surgery. They must also be board-certified in ophthalmology by the American Board of Ophthalmology or its equivalent in their home country. The survey consisted of 21 questions aimed at collecting data on participant demographics, the types of anti-inflammatory medication used, and how they were administered. Before being distributed, the questionnaire underwent review and evaluation by eight cataract surgeons. Results from the study were published in the Journal of Cataract & Refractive Surgery Variations on a Theme A total of 217 ophthalmologists responded to the survey. The majority of respondents were cornea subspecialists (79 percent), and most practiced in the United States (79 percent). The data on prescribing practices revealed significant variation, highlighting the lack of guidelines. Eyedrops According to the researchers, 94 percent of respondents prescribed eyedrops, making it the preferred postoperative treatment regimen. The most commonly prescribed class of eyedrops were corticosteroids (97 percent), followed by antibiotics (85 percent), NSAIDs (73 percent), and combination drops (19 percent). The three most frequent topical treatment regimens were corticosteroids and antibiotics and NSAIDS (53 percent), combination drops in one bottle (19 percent), and corticosteroids and antibiotics (16 percent). Intraocular/Periocular Options Intraocular/periocular options, including new sustained-release delivery systems, were less preferred, with only a slight majority (58.5 percent) of respondents using these options. Surgeons who preferred intraocular/periocular injections after cataract surgery most frequently injected only antibiotics (69 percent), followed by corticosteroids plus antibiotics (17 percent), single combination injection (8 percent), and corticosteroids alone (6 percent). Additionally, 58 percent of surgeons who used intraocular/periocular corticosteroids also recommended topical corticosteroids after cataract surgery, even though there is conflicting evidence regarding this practice. “Most surgeons preferred topical, generic options as the mainstay post–routine cataract surgical treatment,” says Dr. Prescott. “Few respondents had adopted the newer sustained-release corticosteroid formulations.” One possible reason for this could be the higher costs associated with sustained-release formulations, Dr. Prescott explains. Other contributing factors could be a hesitancy to adopt a new product and lack of long-term comparative studies showing superior efficacy to topicals, she adds. Awareness to Guidelines “Our findings will play a role in developing evidence-based guidelines endorsed by the Cornea Society,” Dr. Prescott says. “We anticipate that this will be a topic of discussion at the Cornea Society meeting this fall.” In addition to pushing for guidelines, the researchers plan to conduct future surveys to track whether the use of injectables or sustained-release formulations changes over time. Furthermore, they intend to capture practice patterns from the broader population of ophthalmologists who perform cataract surgery. Christina R. Prescott, MD, PhD, is director of the Division of Cornea Services and the Ophthalmology Residency Program and vice chair for education in the Department of Ophthalmology. She specializes in complex cataract and corneal surgery. Latest in Ophthalmology Dr. Kenneth Wald on Retinal Disease Management The director of vitreoretinal surgery and retinal diseases talks AMD, retinal tears, and more on Doctor Radio’s Brain and Eye Show. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health physicians who are joining colleagues in Chicago from October 18 to 21. Advancing an Ambitious New Vision for Uveitis Research A leading uveitis expert discusses the need to rethink how the group of related autoimmune diseases are classified and treated. An AI Model for Digital Breast Tomosynthesis Screening programs are crucial for early detection of breast cancer, and mammography remains the medical imaging standard. Traditional mammography provides 2D images of breast tissue, but when combined with digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT), or “3D mammography”, it becomes more likely to detect cancer, especially in dense breast tissue. These 3D DBT images are built from series of two-dimensional images and are typically 10x or 100x their 2D counterparts in total size, which doubles interpretation time for radiologists. Artificial intelligence might be the solution. Researchers have been developing and using AI software that can routinely and efficiently evaluate the presence of cancer in large image datasets. AI software can also identify patterns and abnormalities that human radiologists might miss. In a recent study IEEE Transactions On Medical Imaging , researchers at NYU Langone Health have developed an AI-based 3D imaging model, called 3D-GMIC, that greatly improves computational efficiency without reducing accuracy. “We save computation by selecting certain areas of the image for deeper analysis.” Krzysztof J. Geras, PhD , a machine learning expert and senior researcher on the study, “In this AI model, we were trying to intuitively reproduce the way radiologists look at images. We save computation by selecting certain areas of the image for deeper analysis.” Performance Through Localization The 3D-GMIC model builds on a labeled dataset of breast images that took NYU Langone researchers years to compile. The model, developed by Jungkyu Park—a doctoral student in Dr. Geras’ group and first author of the study—and colleagues, was trained with image-level labels only. This included elements like whether or not a patient has cancer, as it is challenging to manually build a dataset of localized, labeled regions of cancer within large 3D images. 3D-GMIC learns to highlight the important regions, enabling it to learn from the data without localization labels. “It is actually pretty remarkable that you can localize these cancers without the localization labels,” says Dr. Geras. In terms of image analysis, DBT images are comprised of 70 slices on average, each containing a few million pixels. “With such large images, humans would never look at the entire image all at once,” says Geras. 3D-GMIC predicts the malignancy of lesions and localizes them in 3D images. First, it uses a global model to identify “patches” in the image that require more attention. “We then look at these patches with a local model, a higher capacity network,” says Dr. Geras. A visual representation of the 3D-GMIC workflow applied to a digital breast tomosynthesis. From left to right: The raw input image, an input image with the radiologist’s annotation, regions of interest for malignant lesions, visualization of the locations of cropped patches, and the two patches that are considered the most important by the model. By focusing on specific patches, researchers found that 3D-GMIC uses 78 to 90 percent less GPU memory, and 91 to 96 percent less computation than existing AI models. Despite this significant reduction, 3D-GMIC still showed comparable performance to earlier models, demonstrating that it successfully classified large 3D images. Finding Practical Utility A promising feature of this study is that the 3D-GMIC model generalized well to an external image dataset from Duke University Hospital. With AI-based medical imaging, it’s challenging to build models that work across different locations. “The fact that this is working across different sources of data shows this method is robust, which is an important condition for the practical utility of these models,” says Dr. Geras. “When we give expert breast imagers access to models such as this, we improve patient care. We find more cancers, and we find different cancers than the ones that the radiologists find.” Laura Heacock, MD , an associate professor of radiology at NYU Langone, they are continuing to test the model in clinical settings. “We’ve found that when we give expert breast imagers access to models such as this, we improve patient care,” says Dr. Heacock. “We find more cancers, and we find different cancers than the ones that the radiologists find.” This study is part of a long-term research project on AI for all modalities of breast imaging , including DBT, ultrasound, and MRI. These imaging modalities all “say something different about the tissue of the patient,” says Dr. Geras. Developing a neural network that could look at mammography, ultrasounds, and MRIs has the potential to lead to more accurate diagnoses. Machine Learning Krzysztof J. Geras, PhD, is an assistant professor of radiology and a Data Science Core Investigator. His research focuses on the use of artificial intelligence to advance breast cancer diagnosis and guide treatment. Laura Heacock, MD, is an associate professor of radiology and fellowship-trained breast imager. She specializes in researching and using artificial intelligence for breast imaging. We have locations throughout the New York City area, and in Florida. View All Locations (57) NYU Langone primary care doctors are focused on one goal: partnering with you to manage your personalized health needs. Your primary care doctor is the physician who you visit for most of your healthcare needs. A primary care doctor offers preventive care—such as an annual physical, immunizations, and screening for common conditions—and also helps diagnose and treat a wide range of common health concerns. There are different types of doctors that you can choose to be your primary care physician. This includes internal medicine and family medicine doctors, as well as obstetrician–gynecologists (OB/GYNs) for women. Pediatricians are primary care doctors for children. Our primary care doctors offer online appointment scheduling and same day doctor’s office visits close to where you live and work. We also provide wellness services, including programs to help you stop smoking, lose weight, and get the vaccinations you need to keep you healthy, whether here or while traveling abroad. We also help you manage medical conditions such as , referring you to specialists within NYU Langone when needed. Our primary care and internal medicine doctors provide wellness care and individualized treatment plans. Our online patient portal is called . It allows you to communicate via private messaging with your physician and clinical staff, as well as to view laboratory and test results and schedule appointments. Our Locations (57) NYU Langone Care on Demand—Upper East Side 1465 Third Avenue, New York, NY, 10028 646-754-2300 332-210-7640 NYU Langone Care on Demand—West Village 540 Hudson Street, New York, NY, 10014 646-754-2200 332-210-7641 NYU Langone East Side Medical & Cardiovascular Associates 184 East 70th Street, Suite B1, New York, NY, 10021 212-737-2270 212-249-2054 NYU Langone Global Pediatrics 1559 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10028 212-585-3329 NYU Langone Internal Medicine Associates 222 East 41st Street, 18th and 19th Floors, New York, NY, 10017 212-263-8313 212-263-8995 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Washington Square 555 LaGuardia Place, New York, NY, 10012 212-263-2446 NYU Langone Brooklyn Medical Associates—Bensonhurst 2310 65th Street, Suite 2, Brooklyn, NY, 11204 718-998-0100 NYU Langone Brooklyn Medical Associates—Dyker Heights 7316 13th Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11228 718-630-1404 NYU Langone Medical Associates—West Brighton 2857 West 8th Street, 2nd Floor, Brooklyn, NY, 11224 929-455-3060 929-455-3061 NYU Langone Slope Pediatrics 60 Eighth Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11217 718-636-0019 718-636-3951 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Bayside 44-01 Francis Lewis Boulevard, Suites L3B and L2A, Bayside, NY, 11361 718-445-0500 718-717-0202 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Steinway Medical 22-02 Steinway Street, Astoria, NY, 11105 347-242-2684 185 Central Avenue, Bethpage, NY, 11714 516-758-8600 NYU Langone Family Medicine Associates—West Babylon 580 Sunrise Highway, West Babylon, NY, 11704 631-422-9355 NYU Langone Geriatric Medicine Associates—Mineola 222 Station Plaza North, Suite 400, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-2588 516-663-4644 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Pediatric Center 175 Fulton Avenue, Suite 100, Hempstead, NY, 11550 516-292-1034 J. Ira & Nicki Harris Family Ambulatory Care—Bridgehampton 2510 Montauk Highway, Bridgehampton, NY, 11932 631-386-3600 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Greenport 74825 Main Road, Greenport, NY, 11944 631-477-0070 631-477-8983 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Manhasset 929-455-6590 NYU Langone Medical Associates—North Babylon 1476 Deer Park Avenue, North Babylon, NY, 11703 631-635-5454 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Oakdale 4568A Sunrise Highway, Oakdale, NY, 11769 631-730-8542 631-730-6946 100 Hospital Road, Suite 115, Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-228-5801 929-455-9827 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Patchogue, 100 Hospital Road, Suite 203 100 Hospital Road, Suite 203, Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-475-6900 631-447-5954 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Patchogue, New Village 9 Village Green, Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-227-6665 631-289-1046 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Shoreham 45 Route 25A, Suite C, Shoreham, NY, 11786 631-744-3303 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Valley Stream 70 East Sunrise Highway, Suite 515E, Valley Stream, NY, 11581 516-536-5656 516-764-1915 NYU Langone Primary Care Associates—Bellport Village 16 Station Road, Suite 5–6, Bellport, NY, 11713 631-286-3995 NYU Langone Pediatric Associates—Garden City 1000 Franklin Avenue, Suite 100, Garden City, NY, 11530 516-248-8334 NYU Langone Primary Care Clinic—Mineola 222 Station Plaza North, Suite 104, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-1500 NYU Langone Primary Care—Long Beach 340 West Park Avenue, Long Beach, NY, 11561 516-431-5064 NYU Langone Primary Care—Mattituck 11700 Main Road, Mattituck, NY, 11952 631-635-5440 631-315-5510 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Staten Island 7 Petrus Avenue, Staten Island, NY, 10312 718-948-8000 929-455-9712 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Bronxville 77 Pondfield Road, Suite 2F1, Bronxville, NY, 10708 914-337-4986 914-337-6422 16244 South Military Trail, Suite 560, Delray Beach, FL, 33484 561-495-7787 561-495-1164 Access our online patient portal to schedule appointments and view test results. Login to MyChart We offer morning, evening, and weekend appointments to best meet your needs. NYU Langone Health Launches Walk-In Primary Care NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO 2024 Annual Meeting Chicago, Illinois. Source: Getty Images NYU Langone Health’s ophthalmology experts are joining colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Ophthalmology 2024 annual meeting in Chicago. See the full conference information and abstract titles , including an update on the Zoster Eye Disease Study Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty. Saturday, October 19 Session (CME) Section I: Ocular Surface Disease/Dry Eye—Update on the Zoster Eye Disease Study NYU Langone Presenter: Time: 8:43AM Location: E354 Instruction Course (CME) From Surface to Surgery: A Case-Based, Interactive, and Hands-On Guide to Corneal Tomography and Topography in Anterior Segment Surgery Laura Palazzolo, MD 11:30AM–12:45PM E352 Sunday, October 20 Approach to Cataract Surgery in Corneal Diseases 8:00–9:15AM S106A Dr. Kenneth Wald on Retinal Disease Management Kenneth Wald, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health For a live episode of the Brain and Eye Show on Doctor Radio, Kenneth Wald, MD , sat down with co-hosts , to explore breakthroughs and challenges in retinal disease management. The discussion ranged from macular degeneration treatments and their risks to the complexities of retinal tears and cataract implant complications. Listener questions prompted engaging insights into managing these conditions, highlighting the delicate balance between cutting-edge therapies and practical patient care. Below, we share an excerpt from the interview, edited for length and clarity. Sirius XM subscribers can listen to the full conversation Dr. Galetta: I want to tackle early one of the topics I see on TV all the time. People are very concerned about it and what can we do about. And that’s the topic of macular degeneration. Are there two forms of this? What are we talking about on TV these days? Dr. Wald: It’s a good topic to bring up because it is such a prevalent condition. Many patients who have macular degeneration don’t even have symptoms. They’re unaware of it. It can only be diagnosed by an ophthalmologic examination, usually with a dilated pupil. We may find some early features of it which we call drusen, small yellow spots that don’t really affect the vision. Later there can be progressive degenerative changes, some of which lead to atrophy. That’s become an area of interest these days because we suddenly have some possibility of slowing the condition down, where previously there was none. Fifteen or 20 years ago, the wet form was generally quickly devastating to vision. But over the last 15 or so years we have a pretty good treatment for that that could at least control it. The problem is treatment burden; patients have to come as frequently as every six weeks, indefinitely, to manage this condition. We also have new treatments that are geared towards the dry form, which can hopefully slow disease progression. However, these medications can’t really reverse it or improve the vision, and that’s what’s controversial these days. Dr. Cohen: Do you think the drugs that are being advertised on TV for wet AMD are that much better than the older drugs? The studies are a little controversial. It’s not so much that they’re better. They work on very much the same principles. But the hope is they can work for longer. For many of the patients receiving these intraocular injections—which is no picnic to have someone insert a needle into your eye—the hope is that maybe some of these drugs can last four or more months, instead of six or eight weeks. The real answer is that a lot of the studies don’t show that much difference, even with these newer drugs that are touted on commercial radio and television. Do you think any of the drugs for dry AMD are ready for primetime, or do you think we’re going to get better ones down the road? Dr. Wald : That’s sort of the central issue in the field of the retina, because we do have this unmet need of dry age-related macular degeneration. And the word degeneration really is relevant here because the actual retina degenerates. We call that atrophy or geographic atrophy. When that happens, it usually starts without much change in the vision. But it’s relentlessly progressive. “That’s sort of the central issue in the field of the retina, because we do have this unmet need of dry age-related macular degeneration.” The drugs that are now on the market, Syfovre and Izervay, these drugs are given either every month or every other month, indefinitely. And patients will experience no visual improvement; they won’t get better. In fact, they’ll still get worse. But the thinking is, and the evidence shows, that they may get worse a little more slowly. There are a lot of side effects and costs associated with these drugs. And there’s some question whether it really improves the visual function. Anatomically, [patients’ geographic atrophy] seems to slow down compared to untreated patients over long periods of time. Whether continuing to treat this over long periods of time will yield some longer, better visual functioning is still being determined. These drugs are pretty new, and we’re looking at two- and four-year data now. We have the same situation today with Alzheimer’s disease. The drugs do not change the fact that somebody’s going to continue to progress. They’re just going to do it slower. Why wouldn’t you take that chance that you’re going to slow your disease down? Is it the cost? Is it the side effects? It is those things. Like all medical therapies, we’re balancing the risks and the benefits. These drugs have a very small therapeutic index. The benefit is small. We don’t even know how much better the visual functioning is going to be. It may have an anatomic benefit and very little visual functional benefit. That’s still being determined. And there are side effects. Simply doing the injection produces a small but real risk of infection. The patients can have some increased risk, not negligible, of developing the wet form of macular degeneration. If that happens, you’re sometimes getting two injections a month; it’s a pretty intensive thing. There are other risks involved. You do have to carefully weigh which patients that it would make sense for. There are a lot of institutions, including our own, that have not really been on board with this form of therapy yet. Let’s try the phone lines. Caller from New Jersey, how can we help you today? Listener 1: In February of last year, I experienced what looked like snakes in my field of vision. I went to the doctor and they lasered down a tear in the retina. Then a few months later they preemptively did the other eye. Everything seemed to be going well. I didn’t have a lot of floaters. But just recently on a follow-up visit, they found something on the front of my eye that I can best describe as it looks like a piece of partially cooked egg white. I’m waiting now to get a biopsy. Are these conditions related? And what could this thing be on the front of my eye? Dr. Cohen : When you look in the mirror on the front of the eye, can you see what they’re talking about? Yes. : Is it sort of at the 3 or 9 o’clock position, and it kind of looks white? : That sounds like a pinguecula, which is related to sun exposure and is almost always benign and has nothing to do with your retinal tears. But your retinal tears are interesting. Dr. Wald, how often do you prophylactically, treat the second eye? Well, that’s controversial. It depends on what the doctor saw. Obviously, you’ve developed what we call a vitreous separation and an associated tear in the retina. With treatment of the fellow eye, I’m guessing that they saw maybe an asymptomatic tear in the fellow eye. Otherwise, there aren’t too many abnormalities that we prophylactically treat in a situation like yours. But again, it’s difficult to say. I’m just glad your floaters got better and you’re seeing well. And, as Dr. Cohen said, it sounds like your external eye problem is unrelated to the floaters and the retinal tear. : How often when someone has acute floaters, when you see them initially or in follow-up, do you find tears that need treatment? If a patient comes in with floaters and we don’t see a tear, it’s pretty rare. However, if you found a tear—you know, I actually just published a paper on this about a year ago— it’s pretty common to find a second tear . It’s not even uncommon to have a detached retina. So, someone who has a sudden onset of floaters and a torn retina, they have to be watched closely for at least a year because they are at risk for other tears and even progression to a retinal detachment. “Someone who has a sudden onset of floaters and a torn retina, they have to be watched closely for at least a year because they are at risk for other tears and even progression to a retinal detachment.” How quickly should somebody who develops floaters see a retina doctor? You’d like it to be within a day or so. Because if you have this sudden onset of floaters, your risk of a torn retina is perhaps 5 or 10 percent. And if you are not treated promptly, if you have a torn retina, you may have as much as a 50/50 chance of going on to a very serious problem called a detached retina. Realistically, I’d say most people are seen within a couple of days, and it works out okay. It’s really the people who ignore it for a week or two that seem to develop retinal detachments. : I am always the exception to all the rules. I had an acute floater at a show in New York, and then another one within several minutes. I left the show and went to Philly to see a doctor there. I was okay. I was seen the next day and the next week. But then two weeks later, I had two horseshoe tears. And I can’t believe he didn’t see them the first time because there wasn’t any reason, like blood, that would prevent a good exam. Dr. Wald, what do you think about that scenario? If you see somebody with a floater but you don’t see a tear, when do you say, ‘Hey, come back again’? I’d say it depends on the risk factors. It’s a very common condition, and you just can’t examine people over and over for something that’s very unlikely to be a problem. But I’d look at their refractive error, meaning are they very nearsighted? Is there blood, as Dr. Cohen was saying, because that would diminish our ability to detect things. Do they have what we call precursor abnormalities, meaning lattice or other things that may give rise to retinal tear? And, what Dr. Cohen is saying, it is kind of unusual that you would examine someone initially and then find a tear a week or two later. And whenever that does happen, I always wonder, did I miss it? You just can’t know, because you looked and presumably you made your best effort. “Isn’t that always the case in medicine? We’re always concerned that we missed something, that we didn’t quite make the diagnosis. We live with that concern every day.” Isn’t that always the case in medicine? We’re always concerned that we missed something, that we didn’t quite make the diagnosis. We live with that concern every day. Is there any better way to look for a retinal tear than you just viewing? Is there a next-level thing that you can do these days? We’d love to have that. In fact, one of our graduates, Jesse Jung, has reported on this very topic . They looked at our best optical tool, called an Optos, and really, it’s not as good. It’s probably pretty good, especially if you already know where the tear is and you can direct the photographer. But it’s not as good. You’ll still miss tears. So right now, in our field, we still have to really look hard. Our next caller is from Connecticut. How can we help you today? Listener 2: I have a problem with one of my cataract implants. I had it done about 10 years ago, but in the last year or so, it moves a little bit, and it gets a drop of blood on the eye. And then for about two hours, you can’t really see out of that eye. It gets foggy. Then it goes away. They’ve been giving me cyclopentolate to dilate the eye so that it doesn’t happen that often, but it still happens. I can’t replace that implant because I’m on blood thinners and the doctor won’t even bother doing it. You’re calling the right person because one of Dr. Wald’s special interests and expertise is dealing with implants that aren’t in the right place and behaving properly. It’s a tricky problem that you have. It depends on how much it’s bothering you. Sometimes we do replace the implants. The condition you seem to have—an implant that’s not stable and is causing occasional bleeding in the eye—is called UGH syndrome . The H stands for hemorrhage. The motion of the implant, as you’ve been describing it, rubs part of the eye tissue and causes bleeding. Sometimes Cyclogyl can help. Sometimes anti-inflammatories will help. Ultimately, if it’s a sporadic problem and you’re mostly seeing okay, I probably would do just what they’re doing. Just manage it conservatively with drops and accept that once in a while you’ll have this problem. The alternative would be a surgery. Again, it all depends on the type of lens in your eye. Some are more apt to be maintained, repositioned, and fixated. Others have to be removed. But the presence of blood thinners doesn’t absolutely rule it out. We operate on people on blood thinners all the time. Most of the studies don’t show that there’s a significantly different risk involved. So it’s really a judgment of what to do. It sounds like, from what I’m hearing, it’s an occasional problem that could be managed with drops for now. So, I think the main thing for you, because other issues like high eye pressure can come up—you just need to be followed closely. If you start having frequent bleeds and the lens is moving very significantly so you can’t see well, you may have to ultimately have a surgical procedure to correct it. But I think it’s an important point that blood thinners don’t make him a bad candidate for most eye procedures. I definitely think about it. It would be a factor. If someone had a retinal detachment, I’m going to do the surgery. Nonetheless, if it’s a macular pucker, a less severe problem, or not progressive, I’ll weigh that a little bit. I feel like there’s still a slight increased risk of even severe complications. But most studies don’t really show that, and we are used to dealing with that all the time. And we generally would take the risk of bleeding in the eye over a stroke to the brain. Correct. So, we’ll keep the patients on blood thinners. I always say brain trumps eye. Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, is a cornea specialist and professor of ophthalmology whose research focuses on infections of the eye, specifically herpes zoster eye disease. She also serves as vice chair of academic affairs in the Department of Ophthalmology and as an advisor for the three-year MD pathway. Steven L. Galetta, MD, is the Philip K. Moskowitz, MD, Professor and Chair of Neurology and a professor of ophthalmology. He specializes in neuro-ophthalmology with an emphasis on disorders of the brain and spinal cord such as vision problems associated with multiple sclerosis. Retinal Ophthalmology, Vitreoretinal Surgery Kenneth Wald, MD, is a professor of ophthalmology and director of vitreoretinal surgery and retinal disease. He specializes in the management of retinal conditions such as retinal tears and detachment, macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, and eye trauma. Gene Therapy for Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy Shows Promising Results Milan R. Amin, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health BB-301 is an experimental gene therapy for OPMD, a rare disorder characterized by weakness of the eyelid and throat muscles; NYU Langone is leading a single-center Phase 1b/2a trial to evaluate its safety and efficacy. At present, 2 patients have been treated with a third enrolled; another 21 who have participated in a natural history study will soon be eligible to enroll. After 9 months of treatment for the first patient and 6 months for the second, preliminary data show sustained improvements in swallowing. Additional interim results are expected in early 2025. Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a rare genetic disorder that progressively weakens the muscles of the eyelids and throat. Symptom onset typically begins after age 40, with patients often developing severe dysphagia that can lead to malnutrition, dehydration, and aspiration pneumonia—and, in some cases, death. Although treatments such as cricopharyngeal dilation or myotomy can improve swallowing-related symptoms, relief is usually temporary. To date, no treatment has been approved that addresses OPMD’s underlying pathology. However, an experimental gene therapy known as BB-301 aims to do just that. A Phase 1b/2a clinical trial began in November 2023 at NYU Langone Health, and preliminary data are encouraging. “The hope is that this will be a permanent fix for folks with OPMD,” says , chief of the Division of Laryngology , who is leading the trial. “These patients know their fate, because they’ve watched family members go through exactly the same thing,” Dr. Amin observes. “As the disease progresses, they’re unable to eat with friends. Many end up on feeding tubes. They’re worried about passing the gene on to their children.” Silencing and Replacing an Errant Gene OPMD is caused by mutations in a gene that encodes PABPN1, a protein crucial for RNA processing in cells throughout the body. Clumps of abnormal PABPN1 accumulate in some muscle cells, impairing their function and eventually killing them. BB-301 is designed to stop this cascade of destruction. Developed by the California-based Benitec Biopharma, the therapy uses an adenovirus vector to deliver genetic code that silences the dysfunctional PABPN1 gene and replaces it with a functional version. The vector is injected into the pharyngeal constrictor muscles through incisions on both sides of the neck. “The open approach enables us to deliver the therapy directly to the muscles, which has been shown preclinically to generate a stronger gene effect,” Dr. Amin explains. “Right now, we’re just looking at safety, but we’ve begun seeing some potential efficacy as well.” The single-center study’s Phase 1b phase will test three escalating doses of the therapy, leading to a Phase 2a trial that will test the optimal dose. Two patients have been treated so far, with a third patient recently enrolled. An additional 21 patients who have participated in a natural history study will soon be eligible to enroll. “Right now, we’re just looking at safety,” Dr. Amin says, “but we’ve begun seeing some potential efficacy as well.” Offering Patients New Hope To measure BB-301’s effects on swallowing ability, the researchers assess total pharyngeal residue using four types of food: a thin liquid, a moderate liquid, a thick liquid, and a solid. Early results have been released for the first patient, with positive responses seen at 90 and 180 days of follow-up. For moderate and thick liquids, as well as solid foods, pharyngeal residue was lower than at any point during a previous natural history study of the patient. For thin liquid, residue was comparable to the lowest value seen during that study. The patient’s self-reported swallowing difficulties have also improved, and neither she nor the other participant treated have experienced major adverse effects. The second patient has also shown improvements at 90 days of follow-up, according to Dr. Amin, though her presenting symptoms were milder, and their mitigation has been less dramatic. “This treatment has had an impact [on the first patient] beyond just her physical health. She told me, ‘I now have hope.’” Much more research will be needed to answer the questions raised by these findings, such as whether BB-301 brings improvements to a sizable proportion of patients, and whether (as with Elevidys, the gene therapy recently approved for Duchenne muscular dystrophy ) a single dose can elicit durable effects. Additional preliminary results are expected in early 2025. For patients with OPMD, however, the trial already offers a different kind of benefit—a sense of possibility. As Dr. Amin puts it, “If it can reverse their dysfunction, it may significantly improve not only their quality of life but also their lifespan.” The trial’s first subject, he adds, has resumed going to restaurants, no longer fearing that others will see her struggling to swallow. “This treatment has had an impact beyond just her physical health,” Dr. Amin says. “She told me, ‘I now have hope.’” NYU Langone Health receives funding from Benitec Biopharma to support the Phase 1b/2a trial of BB-301 for OPMD. Laryngology & Voice, Otolaryngology, Swallow and Airway Milan R. Amin, MD is a professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery and director of the Division of Laryngology. His research interests center on voice and communication disorders and swallowing disorders. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO-HNSF 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health physicians who are joining colleagues in Miami Beach, Florida, September 28 to October 1. Advancing an Ambitious New Vision for Uveitis Research C. Michael Samson, MD, MBA. Source: NYU Langone Health Despite its status as a leading cause of irreversible blindness , uveitis is still an uncommon focus of research. The autoimmune condition is often treatable if caught in time, but choosing the best medication for each patient is still based on trial and error. Since his arrival in October 2023 as director of the Division of Uveitis Services in the Department of Ophthalmology at NYU Langone Health, leading specialist C. Michael Samson, MD, MBA , has launched an ambitious plan to rethink how uveitis is classified. Doing so, he says, will help identify underlying disease pathways and improve the selection of vision-saving biologics. Here, Dr. Samson discusses the state of the field and his vision for the future. Reliance on Trial and Error Dr. Samson, what’s the current state of clinical care for uveitis? Dr. Samson: At present, uveitis remains the rarest subspecialty in ophthalmology, but I think significant strides have been made in clinical care. You can think of a uveitis specialist as the rheumatologist of eye doctors. To treat autoimmune conditions, rheumatologists use, in many cases, systemic immunosuppressives or immunomodulators. These medications can be vision-saving for uveitis patients, and yet most eye doctors have very little experience in using them. “We need a new way of approaching patients with inflammatory eye disease.” While the medications are very effective in treating patients and preventing blindness, the clinical approach of trial and error really hasn’t changed over the last 25 years. Patients often sense this uncertainty, asking “Well, which medicine do we try next?” We need a new way of approaching inflammatory eye disease, and that personal mission is what brought me to NYU Langone. Improving Disease Classification What’s the new paradigm that you’re pursuing here? There’s been a lot of research in animal models of uveitis, to the point where researchers have mapped out the entire pathophysiological mechanism and used knockout models or particular therapies to cure the uveitis in the animals. But when we use biologics targeting those same molecules in patients with uveitis, it often doesn’t yield such a great response, meaning that selecting the appropriate treatment for each patient is still a guessing game. For example, interleukin-1 (IL-1) is critical in animal models of uveitis, but biologics that target IL-1 don’t produce significant clinical effects in most cases of uveitis in humans. My idea is that animal models don’t accurately reflect what happens in humans. Instead of relying on animal models, we can start analyzing and studying the immunopathological mechanism of uveitis in human patients, with the ultimate goal being to understand the disease process. Also, uveitis is typically characterized by whether it’s associated with another autoimmune condition, like lupus or rheumatoid arthritis. Instead, why don’t we categorize uveitis based on the individual’s immune system activity? This approach would provide a more accurate way to categorize the condition. I have a large and diverse cohort of patients with uveitis, along with data on biomarkers that illustrate the various presentations of uveitis in the eye. For example, uveitis in a patient with sarcoidosis can present in five different ways. In many cases, I believe that presentation can reveal a difference in immune pathology. Now that I’m here, I have a great team and the resources to pursue my research idea. How might this rethinking of disease classification help patients? Drug companies continue coming up with biologics that target immune molecules. Ten years ago, I had maybe 7 choices of medications; now I have over 20. However, it hasn’t gotten any easier to select the appropriate biologic for a patient because we have no standardized methodology. Uveitis is a broad umbrella category of at least 30 different diseases, each with unique immunopathological mechanisms that have not yet been elucidated. If we don’t figure out the different immune pathways in each of these disorders, treatment will continue to rely on trial and error. “If we don’t figure out the different immune pathways in each of these disorders, treatment will continue to rely on trial and error.” Wouldn’t it be better to apply precision medicine to uveitis, and be able to identify each patient’s specific immune pathway and match it with the most appropriate medication? Once we start categorizing uveitis immunologically, we can conduct retrospective analyses for each disorder to identify which patients responded well to which treatments. We can build immunological signatures from blood samples and use those signatures to select the most effective drug for each individual. That’ll be a game changer. An Optimistic Eye Toward the Future Looking ahead, what are you most encouraged by in the field? Several things give me optimism. There’s now a lot of interest in uveitis outside of our very small research community. Uveitis, which is often associated with other autoimmune conditions, has “orphan disease” status from the FDA. So for companies, it presents a pathway where you can do a smaller and less expensive clinical trial and find information about your drug without having to do a gigantic rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis trial. In fact, given that we’re one of the few uveitis centers in the nation, NYU Langone has already been approached by two companies wanting to run their clinical trials for uveitis here. Secondly, I believe that there’s a modestly higher number of immunologists studying uveitis, based on research meetings I’ve attended and reading what manuscripts are being published. With more investigators with diverse expertise studying the condition, we’ll gain greater insight into the disease and further improve treatments. The last thing is that I’m pleasantly surprised by how well-informed patients are about the condition and the available treatments. They show great interest in and support for my research and that of other specialists. It serves as strong motivation to move forward and try to make their lives better. C. Michael Samson, MD, MBA, is director of the Division of Uveitis Services in the Department of Ophthalmology. He specializes in uveitis and other inflammatory eye disorders, including scleritis and ocular cicatricial pemphigoid. Novel Strategy Stabilizes Newborn’s Cardiomyopathy Prior to Heart Transplant Retention of patent ductus arteriosus and pulmonary artery banding aid left ventricle before successful transplant. The patient at his first birthday celebration. View the Slideshow Novel Hybrid Strategy and Heart Transplant for Infant’s Cardiomyopathy In September 2022, diagnostic scans taken during the 27th week of an Israeli woman’s pregnancy revealed a severely weakened left ventricle in her developing fetus. The prenatal diagnosis suggested that after birth, the newborn would likely develop severe heart failure and require a heart transplant. At NYU Langone Health, maternal–fetal medicine and pediatric cardiology specialists confirmed the life-threatening diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy via a fetal echocardiogram. At 37 weeks into her pregnancy, the woman gave birth to a baby boy, who was in cardiogenic shock and taken to the for specialized care. “From our perspective, he was very sick,” says , medical director of the . “He would need a heart transplant to survive.” “The donor heart worked perfectly from the moment it started beating.” A left ventricular assist device called the Berlin Heart can help a weakened heart move blood through the body, but the device carries an increased risk of bleeding and stroke in infants. To bridge the time until a donor heart would become available, pediatric heart surgeon , proposed a novel alternative that had been used for other congenital heart defects: using the patient’s healthy right ventricle to augment blood flow to the body. To accomplish that, intravenous prostaglandin E1 kept the newborn’s patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) blood vessel open. Surgeons also performed bilateral branch pulmonary artery banding to limit that artery’s blood flow and reduce the risk of long-term lung damage. The baby soon stabilized and remained on a ventilator under mild sedation. At two months of life, his PDA began to constrict, requiring catheter stent implantation across the ductus arteriosus.  In June 2023, a donor heart became available, allowing surgeons led by Dr. Kumar and , to rebuild the baby’s pulmonary arteries and perform a heart transplant. “The donor heart worked perfectly from the moment it started beating,” Dr. Kumar says. “This excellent outcome is the result of our team’s extensive experience and seamless collaboration,” adds Dr. Mosca. “Infants who make it to transplant have a greater than 50 percent chance of doing well with the same heart 25 years later.” The boy’s parents, who had relocated to New York, took their son home two months later, and he continued to receive extensive outpatient pediatric rehabilitation services through . “Infants who make it to transplant have a greater than 50 percent chance of doing well with the same heart 25 years later,” Dr. Singh says. In December 2023, the boy celebrated another big milestone: his first birthday. Developing Fetus Diagnosed with Dilated Cardiomyopathy After diagnostic scans at 27 weeks of a woman’s pregnancy revealed a weakened left ventricle in her fetus, maternal–fetal medicine and pediatric cardiology specialists at NYU Langone confirmed the diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy. The woman gave birth to a baby boy at 37 weeks, and he began receiving specialty care in the Congenital Cardiovascular Care Unit at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Intravenous Medication Retains PDA In infants, the patent ductus arteriosus in the right ventricle normally closes after birth, but can be kept open with medication. As one part of a novel hybrid strategy to support the newborn’s severely weakened left ventricle, surgeons used prostaglandin E1 to keep the patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in his healthy right ventricle open. Retaining the function of this PDA blood vessel, which normally closes after birth, helped augment blood flow throughout the baby’s body until a donor heart became available. Pulmonary Artery Banding Limits Blood Flow Pulmonary artery banding, in the context of cardiomyopathy, can limit blood flow to the lungs and reduce long-term risks. In the second part of the novel hybrid strategy to support the newborn’s severely weakened left ventricle, surgeons performed pulmonary artery banding. Placing bands on the outside of the pulmonary artery limited its blood flow from the heart to the lungs, thereby reducing the young patient’s risk of long-term lung damage. Successful Heart Transplant Photo of the pediatric cardiology care team. From left: Dr. Achiau Ludomirsky, Dr. Rakesh Singh, Henya Grossman, Nathaniel Grossman, Yair Broyer, Dr. Ralph S. Mosca, Dr. T.K. Susheel Kumar, and Dr. Manu Varma. In June 2023, a donor heart became available and a team of doctors, including T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD, and Ralph S. Mosca, MD, performed a heart transplant after rebuilding the baby’s pulmonary arteries. The patient was able to leave the hospital two months later, and continued to receive outpatient rehabilitation services. In December 2023, he celebrated his first birthday. Prev Next Ralph S. Mosca, MD, is Henry H. Arnhold Chair and Professor of Cardiothoracic Surgery. Dr. Mosca is also director of the Congenital Heart Center and chief of the Division of Pediatric and Adult Congenital Cardiac Surgery. Rakesh Singh, MD, is the Haugland Family Associate Professor of Pediatric Cardiology in Pediatrics and medical director of the Pediatric Heart Failure and Transplantation Program. He specializes in cardiomyopathy, congenital heart disease, and other conditions that can lead to heart failure and a needed transplant. Latest in Heart Surgery Sequential Triple Therapy Boosts Outcomes in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Add-on therapy significantly improves function, risk, and survival in a difficult-to-treat cardiopulmonary condition. Niche Role for Temporary VADs in Bypass Surgery For patients with advanced heart failure, VADs offer a path to lifesaving surgery. Insights from First Heart Xenotransplantations in Recent Decedents Internationally recognized cardiac transplant surgeon discusses his team’s unprecedented study. AI Improves Breast Cancer Detection Expanding their suite of AI tools for breast imaging, researchers develop a machine learning model for DCE-MRI. A machine learning model for MRI aids radiologists in detecting breast cancer and may help to reduce unnecessary biopsy, according to a new study published in Science Translational Medicine The model is the latest tool from data scientist , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health who are applying artificial intelligence (AI) to improve the accuracy of breast imaging modalities, including . Postdoctoral fellow Jan Witowski, MD, PhD, is first author of the new report. “Our studies demonstrate how artificial intelligence can help radiologists interpret breast imaging exams to identify only those findings that show real signs of breast cancer and to avoid verification by biopsy in cases that turn out to be benign,” Dr. Geras says. The suite of models will ultimately be combined into a larger AI system, with the goal of making predictions and learning from multiple imaging modalities simultaneously. “Our studies demonstrate how artificial intelligence can help radiologists interpret breast imaging exams to identify only those findings that show real signs of breast cancer and to avoid verification by biopsy in cases that turn out to be benign.” “We’re hoping to find very subtle correlations among different imaging modalities and learn signal that is too weak for humans to notice,” Dr. Geras says. AI for Breast MRI While mammography is largely the relied upon screening exam for breast cancer, MRI has an edge over mammography for its ability to detect small lesions. Yet, a high rate of false-positive findings has limited its use in breast cancer screening, with roughly three biopsies with benign results occurring for every one biopsy with malignant findings To improve the specificity of breast MRI, Dr. Geras and colleagues, including imaging specialist Linda Moy, MD , a professor of radiology, used more than 21,000 bilateral dynamic contrast-enhanced breast MRI exams from patients at NYU Langone to build and train a machine learning model. They then evaluated the model on three external datasets from other institutions in the United States and Europe. “The model is sufficiently robust that it generalizes to other populations. That is often missing in papers that develop AI for different applications,” Dr. Geras says. Their analysis revealed the AI-based system to be on par with radiologists in detecting breast cancer in MRI exams, and a simulation indicated the model may help to avoid unnecessary biopsies in patients with BI-RADS 4 lesions, for which a “biopsy-all” strategy is currently recommended. AI for Breast Ultrasound In a previous study, and one of the largest of its kind, the research team developed an AI model for breast ultrasound, utilizing nearly 5.5 million breast ultrasound images from more than 143,000 patients treated at NYU Langone. Breast ultrasound rivals both mammography and MRI for its low cost, accessibility, and power to distinguish solid masses from cystic lesions. However, like MRI, difficulty in interpreting images leads to many false-positive findings and unnecessary biopsies. Not only was the AI model as accurate at generating diagnoses as experienced radiologists, but when used by radiologists to assist in diagnosis, false-positive rates decreased by 37 percent, and the number of requested biopsies dropped by 27 percent. The study also suggested the system could be used to triage ultrasound exams by automatically dismissing benign cases while escalating high-risk ones to a thorough assessment workflow. “If our efforts to use machine learning as a triaging tool for ultrasound studies prove successful, ultrasound could become a more effective tool in breast cancer screening…. Its future impact on improving women’s breast health could be profound.” “If our efforts to use machine learning as a triaging tool for ultrasound studies prove successful, ultrasound could become a more effective tool in breast cancer screening, especially as an alternative to mammography, and for those with dense breast tissue,” Dr. Moy says. “Its future impact on improving women’s breast health could be profound.” Further Refining the Models Dr. Geras cautions that while these initial results are promising, the research teams only looked at past exams in their analyses, and clinical trials of the tools in current patients and real-world conditions are needed before they can be routinely deployed. He also has plans to refine the AI software to include additional patient information, such as a patient’s added risk from having a family history or genetic mutation tied to breast cancer. Linda Moy, MD, is a professor of radiology. She specializes in breast imaging, and her research focuses on artificial intelligence to assist with the detection of breast cancer as well as MRI scans of the breast to support precision medicine for breast cancer. Robotic Liver Resection Matches Open Surgery for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Both the robotic and open approaches to liver resection show comparable results for efficacy, but robotic resection is associated with significantly shorter hospital LOS, ICU admissions, and rates of severe complications. ADAPTED FROM: JAMA Surgery . 2023 Jan 01;158(1):45-64. Long-term oncologic outcomes of robotic surgery remain a topic of debate in surgical oncology, but little data has been published thus far. In one of the largest studies to date of full robotic liver resection (RLR) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), researchers co-led by Karim J. Halazun, MD , section chief of hepatobiliary surgery in the Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery at NYU Langone Health, found that its efficacy equaled that of open surgery—with superior results for RLR in perioperative outcomes. “Our findings suggest that robotic liver resection confers significant advantages over open surgery in patients with HCC at expert centers.” JAMA Surgery, the study was a retrospective analysis of prospectively maintained databases from five high-volume centers in the United States and Europe. The team evaluated both the short- and long-term outcomes of patients who underwent RLR at four of the centers between 2010 and 2020, compared with a control group of patients who underwent open liver resection (OLR) in the same time interval at an international referral center for HCC surgical management. A total of 398 patients were identified in the analysis, with 158 in the RLR group and 240 in the OLR group. Overall survival rates at 90 days and the estimated overall survival rates at 24 months were similar for both cohorts, as was the cumulative incidence of death related to tumor recurrence. In terms of perioperative tolerability, however, RLR achieved markedly better results. The median hospital length of stay (LOS) for RLR was less than half that for OLR, and admissions to the intensive care unit were two-thirds lower. The incidence of posthepatectomy liver failure was also over two-thirds lower for RLR than for OLR. “Our findings suggest that robotic liver resection confers significant advantages over open surgery in patients with HCC at expert centers,” says Dr. Halazun. “Reduced ICU admissions and hospital LOS, as well as a lower incidence of severe complications, may ultimately lead to a reduction of overall costs and compensate for RLR’s higher technology-related expenses. “By reducing morbidity, RLR may expand the number of patients who can receive treatment from which they are currently excluded due to the risk of liver decompensation.” Karim J. Halazun, MD, is a professor of surgery, section chief of hepatobiliary surgery, and surgical director of the Adult Liver Transplant Program. He specializes in the surgical management of bile duct cancer and pancreatic cancer, as well as liver cancer and metastases. Reassuring News on GLP-1 Agonists & Suicide NYU Langone researchers have conducted the first meta-analysis of adverse psychiatric outcomes in randomized, controlled trials of GLP-1 receptor agonists. The study examined results for over 65,000 patients and found no difference in rates of suicidal ideation/attempt/completion or self-harm between drug recipients and those receiving placebo. These findings do not support previous concerns that GLP-1 agonists might present a heightened suicide risk, as has been associated with bariatric surgery in numerous studies. GLP-1 receptor agonists have been shown to improve diabetes, reduce cardiovascular events, and cause life-changing weight loss. However, concerns have been raised about increased adverse psychiatric effects—specifically, suicide. Given the exponential increase in the use of these agents, even a slightly heightened risk of this catastrophic outcome could have major clinical impacts. To investigate that possibility, NYU Langone Health researchers launched the first meta-analysis of suicide and self-harm among patients treated with GLP-1 agonists in randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials. “Bariatric surgery has long been the gold standard for treating severe obesity, but studies show a small increase in suicide risk after such procedures,” says preventive cardiologist , who led the study. “If GLP-1 agonists pose a similar risk, that’s important to know—and if they don’t, it could further accelerate the sea change occurring in our approach to treating obesity.” “Bariatric surgery has long been the gold standard for treating severe obesity, but studies show a small increase in suicide risk. If GLP-1 agonists pose a similar risk, that’s important to know.” The study’s results, set to be presented at the upcoming 2024 American Heart Association conference , suggest that the similarities in outcome between the two approaches do not include that potential downside. Suicide Risk with Bariatric Surgery Raises Concerns About GLP-1 Questions about a link between suicidality and GLP-1 agonists first came to public awareness in July 2023 , when the Icelandic national health department described three patients taking the drugs, two of whom had suicidal thoughts and one who engaged in self-harm. That news spurred the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and researchers worldwide to investigate the possibility of a causal connection. Dr. Heffron and his team, however, had begun their study a year earlier. His curiosity was sparked by a 2022 journal discussion with colleagues in NYU Langone’s —one of the largest and longest-standing such centers in the country. The group was reviewing a paper on tirzepatide, a GLP-1 agonist, which reported that the drug’s efficacy for weight loss was nearly comparable to that of bariatric surgery. “Why bariatric surgery is so effective is not completely understood,” Dr. Heffron explains, “but we know that it leads, at least transiently, to a rise in blood levels of GLP-1. We also know there are GLP-1 receptors in the brain.” That made him wonder: Is the increase in GLP-1 responsible for the heightened risk of suicide associated with the surgery? If so, he thought, an elevated risk might also be seen with GLP-1 receptor agonists. Illustration of a GLP-1 receptor agonist (red) bound to a GLP-1 receptor (blue). Source: Getty Images Dr. Heffron was among the first cardiologists in the United States to prescribe such drugs—originally intended for those with diabetes—to treat obesity. Although none of his own patients had shown signs of suicidality, he felt it was urgent to learn whether the medications could have that unintended consequence. To find out, Dr. Heffron and his team began with a comprehensive literature search for randomized, controlled trials involving adults with obesity or diabetes or both treated with GLP-1 agonists for at least six months. The 11 researchers screened over 7,000 articles and extracted data for 144 that met the initial criteria for inclusion. After querying all available data sources, including direct contact with principal investigators or corresponding authors, the team found that 21 of the trials had recorded risk of adverse psychiatric outcomes. A random-effects meta-analysis of these studies was performed to estimate risk ratios for the primary outcome: suicidal ideation/attempt/completion or self-harm. Extensive Analysis Brings Reassuring News By the time this laborious process was completed, the EMA and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration had issued their own preliminary reports, based on analyses of electronic medical records as well as observational studies and clinical trials, which found no link between GLP-1 agonists and suicidal thoughts or self-harm. Both agencies, however, called for further research to determine whether a small risk might exist for some subgroups. The NYU Langone team’s meta-analysis confirmed and broadened these findings. Across the studies that were included, over 36,000 subjects received GLP-1 agonists and over 30,000 received placebo. The event rate was very low—and statistically comparable—for both cohorts: 53 for patients receiving the drugs, and 45 for those in the control groups. No evidence emerged, moreover, that patients’ psychiatric history had an impact on risk. Although six studies (including nearly 12,000 patients) had a history of suicide attempt/depression as exclusion criteria for enrollment, removal of these studies did not affect the overall findings of the meta-analysis. “We need to continue with Phase 4 observational trials … But it’s reassuring to see that with the highest level of evidence, there’s no signal for concern.” Dr. Heffron and his colleagues also conducted a subgroup analysis, collecting trials that compared GLP-1 agonists with DPP-4 inhibitors (an older class of diabetes medications), both of which raise blood levels of GLP-1. “There was no difference in suicide risk between drug recipients and controls with either type of medication,” he notes. “So it would seem that GLP-1 is not the mechanism of the increased risk seen with bariatric surgery.” The takeaway, Dr. Heffron adds, is that GLP-1 agonists could offer the benefits of bariatric surgery without that elevated risk. “We need to continue with Phase 4 observational trials to look for any rare side effects,” he says. “But it’s reassuring to see that with the highest level of evidence, there’s no signal for concern.” Sean P. Heffron, MD, is an assistant professor of cardiology. His research centers around modifiable risk factors for cardiovascular disease, including optimizing effects of weight loss after bariatric surgery. Sleep Center Leads in Primary Aldosteronism Screening Research from NYU Langone Health points to sleep centers as an ideal setting to conduct recommended screening for primary aldosteronism in individuals with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension. Published in the journal , the research represents a meaningful step forward in an understudied group. Primary aldosteronism is typically viewed as a rare disease; however, it disproportionately affects upward of one in three people with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension. Clinical guidelines from the Endocrine Society recommend screening individuals with comorbid obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension for primary aldosteronism, yet screening rates remain low “The sleep center seems like an unusual place to check for a hormonal disorder, but it’s where we can find individuals most likely to have primary aldosteronism.” Insoo Suh, MD “The sleep center seems like an unusual place to check for a hormonal disorder, but it’s where we can find individuals most likely to have primary aldosteronism to guide their treatment beyond sleep apnea management,” says endocrinology surgeon , senior author on the study. Endocrinologist , and sleep medicine specialist Mandana Mahmoudi, MD, PhD, MPH , served as co-authors. Primary Aldosteronism and Comorbidities Individuals with primary aldosteronism produce too much aldosterone. This hormonal imbalance leads to sodium accumulation, water retention, increased blood pressure, and a potentially dangerous drop in potassium levels. Primary aldosteronism is an often-overlooked cause of hypertension. An interesting bidirectional connection between primary aldosteronism and obstructive sleep apnea has emerged. High aldosterone can cause fluid buildup around the throat, making obstructive sleep apnea worse. Conversely, treating primary aldosteronism can lessen the severity of sleep apnea. New Insight into Screening and Prevalence Earlier reports have suggested that few patients with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension are screened, so NYU Langone researchers designed their study to gather current real-world data on primary aldosteronism screening and prevalence. During a retrospective chart review of 354 individuals diagnosed with or who self-reported having hypertension and obstructive sleep apnea who participated in sleep studies at NYU Langone between January and September 2021, Dr. Suh and colleagues discovered that the screening rate was 19 percent—nearly two and a half times higher than anticipated, based on previous reports of screening rates of under 8 percent Of screened patients, 21 percent ended up being positive for primary aldosteronism, with a correlation found between positive screens and more-severe obstructive sleep apnea. “Nearly one in four individuals with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension screened in the NYU Langone sleep center had underlying primary aldosteronism, which corroborates previous reports,” says Dr. Suh. He adds that this information should encourage more clinicians to screen regularly for hormonal imbalance, especially when managing severe sleep apnea. Instituting a Standard Protocol Raises Screening Rates To increase primary aldosteronism screening rates, the sleep center launched a standardized biochemical screening protocol for all individuals with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension in April 2021. The screening protocol consisted of blood tests for serum aldosterone levels, plasma renin activity, and the aldosterone-to-plasma renin activity ratio. After protocol implementation, the screening rate within the center nearly doubled, increasing from 12 percent at baseline to 23 percent. “Not only did we double the screening rate in our sleep center with a standard protocol, but our screening rate far exceeds what’s been reported in other studies.” “Not only did we double the screening rate in our sleep center with a standard protocol, but our screening rate far exceeds what’s been reported in other studies,” says Dr. Mahmoudi, the clinical director of sleep medicine in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine “Our study yields compelling evidence for instituting and standardizing primary aldosteronism screening, specifically in sleep centers, if we want to increase detection,” says Dr. Mahmoudi. Insoo Suh, MD, is an associate professor of surgery and vice chair of surgical innovation. His research and clinical interests focus on innovative surgical techniques and alternative treatment technologies for conditions requiring surgery of the thyroid, parathyroid, and adrenal glands. Mandana Mahmoudi, MD, PhD, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine and clinical director of sleep medicine in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine. Her research and clinical interests include sleep apnea, sleep disorders, hypersomnia, and sleep hygiene. State Dementia Plans: Understanding Their Past & Improving Their Future Joshua Chodosh, MD Over the past two decades, nearly all states and territories have published their own plans for mitigating the public health effects of Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias (ADRDs). Although many of these plans address important issues such as primary prevention, early detection, and inequitable population impacts, little is known about the efficacy of those efforts. In a study Alzheimer’s & Dementia , researchers examined the history of state and territory ADRD plans and analyzed their design and implementation—and found significant shortcomings in many areas. They also offered policy recommendations on both the state and federal levels to address those issues. Here, nationally recognized Alzheimer’s disease expert , a senior author of the study and the Michael L. Freedman Professor of Geriatric Research at NYU Langone Health, discusses its findings. Asking New Questions Dr. Chodosh, what was your team’s goal in analyzing this massive collection of public health plans? Dr. Chodosh : We wanted to understand what the states and territories were doing about ADRDs, and how well they were doing it. It’s great to have an initiative and the motivation and ambition to do something. But has it led to significant outcomes? And did any of these plans have elements that might be useful for other states to emulate? “It’s great to have an initiative and the motivation and ambition to do something. But has it led to significant outcomes?” Though state and territory plans started emerging soon after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Alzheimer’s Association launched the Healthy Brain Initiative in 2005, no one had ever tried to answer those questions systematically. As a first step, we focused on the topic of improving early detection as a public health priority. We also wanted to trace the evolution of the plans and how it was affected by national capacity-building initiatives. To that end, we looked at how state plans have addressed three priorities specified in the 2011 National Alzheimer’s Project Act , or NAPA: improving rates and timeliness of ADRD detection and diagnosis, developing the primary care workforce for dementia detection and care, and promoting equity for populations disproportionately affected by ADRD. Analyzing Efficacy How did you and your colleagues go about your investigation? Dr. Chodosh: Through web searches, we identified plans for 49 states, plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. We then created a uniform variable structure, including the year of initial plan development, to identify common objectives, highlight key recommendations within each objective, and collate commonalities across plans. We also identified objectives within each of the three key NAPA priority categories that could be compared across plans. To characterize the quality of state and territory plans, we determined whether each NAPA healthcare priority was identified as a problem with a goal for improvement, and whether any specific strategies or action steps were proposed to achieve that goal. We examined plans that included actionable strategies to see if they included criteria for evaluating results. Finally, we looked at the composition of each plan’s stakeholder working groups to see the extent to which public health entities, such as departments of public health, were integrated into the planning process. Uncovering Widespread Shortcomings What were your main findings? We found that most state and territory plans had no real implementation plan. More specifically, they lacked any kind of financial infrastructure to implement their objectives. Equally important, most of the plans had no clarity on evaluation. If you do implement some aspect of your plan, how do you know if it’s had an impact? What data is available to you? What data do you need that isn’t available, and how will you get it? Once you get it, how will you use it? Those questions remained largely unanswered. “We have no nationally supported quality measures for dementia care in the United States. It’s hard for states to be sure what they should be measuring.” One big reason for this uncertainty is that we have no nationally supported quality measures for dementia care in the United States. So it’s hard for states to be sure what they should be measuring. Have the shortcomings you identified improved over time? To some extent. Health equity was a minor focus before NAPA; it has emerged as a distinct one for most of the 39 plans created after 2011. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ introduction of the Medicare Annual Wellness Visit in 2012 made ADRD detection an explicit target for clinical improvement. Since then, there’s been an emerging focus on including dementia in medical training curricula. BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act of 2018 has also spurred some changes. Before its passage, few public health departments were formally integrated into state and territory ADRD plans; that has begun to change. The BOLD Act also provides funding for states to develop blueprints for implementation and evaluation of their plans. That has moved the needle a bit, but we’re still far from where we need to be. A Road Map for Improvement What can be done to improve state and territory ADRD plans? In our paper, we offer four policy recommendations. First, the federal government should establish a national authority to oversee planning and implementation of public health measures around ADRDs. Second, we need to develop standardized, reportable measures of ADRD detection, care, and quality. Third, we should explore new opportunities for sustainable public health funding on the state level. And fourth, we should require collaboration between all national agencies and organizations that have ADRD components. We’re heading in the right direction, but the work has just begun. Joshua Chodosh, MD, is the Michael L. Freedman Professor of Geriatric Research and director of the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care and of The Michael L. Freedman Research Center on Aging, Technology, and Cognitive Health. He also serves as a staff physician at the VA New York Harbor Healthcare System. His research interests include dementia, cognitive assessment, and hearing loss. Exploring Remote Neuromodulation for Multiple Sclerosis Innovative trials incorporate virtual visits to study the life-changing potential of neuromodulation. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is making steady inroads as an evidence-based therapy for the management of cognitive, motor, speech, and mood symptoms in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). For the past eight years, , leader of tDCS research and clinical programs at NYU Langone Health, has been working with a team to develop a method of providing tDCS to MS patients remotely. “Patients with MS often have difficulty accommodating daily visits to the clinic to receive treatment,” says Dr. Charvet, whose work has made NYU Langone Health a recognized leader in delivering tDCS for patients at home. “Our remote model is a groundbreaking opportunity to reach more of these individuals.” “Patients with MS often have difficulty accommodating daily visits to the clinic to receive treatment. Our remote model is a groundbreaking opportunity to reach more of these individuals.” Pilot Studies Test Efficacy As a non-invasive brain stimulation technique, tDCS applies mild direct currents to enhance or diminish neuronal excitability. “We have created a highly rigorous research protocol enabling home use of tDCS, which can be paired with cognitive or motor training to increase benefit,” says Charvet. The research team recently completed two large pivotal trials evaluating the home-based use of tDCS in MS. first trial enrolled 120 patients with MS to investigate the benefit of tDCS paired with cognitive training to reduce fatigue and improve cognitive functioning. The second trial enrolled 66 patients with MS to evaluate the benefit of tDCS paired with hand exercises to improve upper extremity motor functioning. Results from both studies are expected in the coming months. Additional, ongoing trials are investigating the use of home-based participation to further study the benefits of tDCS for patients with MS, as well as to evaluate its use in other conditions including clinical depression. Benefits of Additive Physical Therapy One current study , co-led by Dr. Charvet and postdoctoral fellow Giuseppina Pilloni, PhD , is evaluating home-based treatment of tDCS paired with a physical activity program to improve walking and functional mobility in patients with MS. Study participants are randomly assigned to an active or sham (placebo) tDCS combined with aerobic exercise using a seated pedal exerciser. Through the virtual program, participants can participate in the study from any location in the United States. “In theory, the repeated tDCS treatments can induce long-term potentiation phenomena, causing specific changes in synaptic efficacy of the targeted brain region, and promoting synergistic effects when paired with a training activity in patients with MS,” explains Charvet. Pathway to Clinical Care “While the tDCS is not currently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, we are hopeful that this will change,” says Charvet. In the meantime, Charvet and her team have launched a clinical to offer at-home treatment sessions as innovative care, under video supervision through the NYU Langone patient app. This service expands access to virtually monitored, at-home tDCS to patients at home no matter where they are located. Dr. Charvet receives funding from the NIH (1R01NS112996-01A, R21NS101712-01), U.S. Department of Defense (W81XWH-17-1-0320), Department of Veterans Affairs (VA Healthcare GRANT13010404), and the National MS Society (RG-1803-30492). She is also a consultant for Johnson & Johnson, Ybrain, and Springer Healthcare. Leigh E. Charvet, PhD, is a professor of neurology and director of multiple sclerosis research at NYU Langone Health. Her research interests center on the use of noninvasive, remotely supervised therapies for symptoms of chronic neurologic and neuropsychiatric disorders. Tracking Down Risk Factors for Dementia With $31 million in funding from the NIH at NYU Langone Health will continue its large, diverse cohort study investigating how vascular risk factors contribute to dementia and other age-related disorders. Research on aging is becoming more critical, given that the number of adults older than 65 is set to exceed the number of children under 18 in the United States by 2034. “As human life expectancy increases, there is an urgent need to better understand risk among people aged 85 or older and discover biomarkers that may explain the changing risk associations at an older age.” “We are grateful for the opportunity to continue gathering rigorous evidence regarding modifiable risk factors in midlife and in older age that may improve dementia prevention efforts and health among even the most elderly adults,” says , founding director of the institute. The research is at the core of the Optimal Aging Institute’s mission of building a hub that connects world-leading, cross-disciplinary research teams dedicated to improving how people age. The goal of the institute, formed in 2023, is to catalyze studies that move from observational epidemiology to biobanking, biomarker discovery, molecular research, and clinical trials that inform risk factor prediction, prevention, intervention, and policy changes. The ARIC-NCS Study The cohort study, known as the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities–Neurocognitive Study (ARIC-NCS), is one of the longest-running cardiovascular studies and includes the longest followed group of Black participants for cognition. Dr. Coresh co-leads the ARIC-NCS alongside Dr. Thomas Mosley, director of the Memory Impairment and Neurodegenerative Dementia (MIND) Center at the University of Mississippi Medical Center, and Dr. Rebecca Gottesman, chief of the Stroke, Cognition, and Neuroepidemiology Section at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. For more than 35 years, the project has tracked 15,792 individuals in four communities in Maryland, North Carolina, Mississippi, and Minnesota. The study has spurred numerous publications and is connected to over 2 million biobanked specimens. At the time of enrollment, individuals were between the ages of 45 and 65. Findings from the study have revealed that midlife vascular risk factors strongly predict dementia, frailty, and cognitive and physical decline occurring before age 85. Yet only cognitive status and physical function reliably predict dementia after 85, raising the need to better understand risk among the oldest group of old adults. “As human life expectancy increases, there is an urgent need to better understand risk among people aged 85 or older and discover biomarkers that may explain the changing risk associations at an older age for a wide range of diseases,” says Dr. Coresh. A Focus on Adults 85 and Over As part of the funding renewal, Dr. Coresh (who has been working with ARIC since 2002) and a team of investigators from 10 universities across the United States will follow approximately 4,000 of the original participants who remain active in the study and who are in their 80s and 90s—building on almost 40 years’ worth of health-related and biomarker data to be related with cognitive function, physical decline, and age-related disease. The renewal will broaden the scope of data collection by incorporating six types of wearable devices, allowing for the monitoring of sleep, physical activity, blood glucose, and heart health. “The core principle of the Optimal Aging Institute is that aging-associated declines are not inevitable and should not be accepted as a normal part of aging.” Emphasis will be placed on race- and sex-specific analyses to better understand how underlying multimorbidity, vascular risk factors, and social determinants of health influence not only biomarker levels but also the timing of their alteration and impact on dementia. Of the participants who remain active in the study, 70 percent are female and 25 percent are Black. “The core principle of the Optimal Aging Institute is that aging-associated declines are not inevitable and should not be accepted as a normal part of aging,” says Dr. Coresh. On April 15, Dr. Coresh will moderate a special symposium to highlight an important topic at the intersection of vascular health and aging: “Controversies in Population Health: Tight blood pressure control—can we prevent dementia among older adults?” The event, co-sponsored by NYU Langone’s and the Optimal Aging Institute, will feature six renowned experts in the field and will showcase recent groundbreaking research on how treating hypertension may prevent dementia. The discussion is open to the public, but registration is required Reevaluating the Routine Use of Open Colon Resection Compared to an open approach, minimally invasive surgery (either laparoscopic or robotic) is associated with reductions in length of stay, readmission rate, mortality, and cost. ADAPTED FROM: JSLS , 2022 Apr-Jun; 26(2): e2021.00092. While the use of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) has expanded in many specialties, colon resection is still routinely performed as open surgery in much of the United States. In a retrospective study of more than 88,000 Vizient records , NYU Langone Health researchers found that, compared with open surgery, minimally invasive colon resection improves short-term outcomes, including length of stay, readmission rate, mortality, and cost. “Our study shows that patients who have minimally invasive colectomy will have superior outcomes.” “Colon resections are regarded as major operations in comparison to other GI surgeries, and many surgeons have greeted minimally invasive colon surgery with caution,” says , a professor of surgery at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. “There was some initial doubt around oncological colorectal surgery because of early concern regarding higher recurrence rates.” Another reason for surgeon hesitancy: The learning curve for MIS is steep. “You have to go through formal, structured training,” Dr. Brathwaite says. “Robotics is easier to learn, but the equipment is expensive. You can’t just go out and start doing it like you can laparoscopy.” As laparoscopic and robotic procedures increase in academic centers, surgical residents will be more likely to perform colon MIS, Dr. Brathwaite notes. The goal is to make sure as many people are trained in MIS as possible, including practicing surgeons. “Of course, we’re still teaching laparoscopy; we don’t have robots in every operating room,” he says. “And there are some patients that still require open surgery; for example, someone who is hemodynamically unstable. Residents work with us on these open cases and get simulation training as well.” Dr. Brathwaite hopes this study and others will shift thinking regarding open colon resection as the gold standard of care. “To make any sort of change like this, you have to keep showing data,” he says. “Our study shows that patients who have minimally invasive colectomy will have superior outcomes, especially right around the episode of care.” Bariatric Surgery, General Surgery Collin E. M. Brathwaite, MD, MS, is a professor of surgery at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. His research explores surgical considerations in bariatric, foregut and other complex surgeries, including issues related to surgical practice and training. Epilepsy Expert Strives to Improve Access to Surgical Care Cigdem I. Akman, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Acclaimed pediatric epileptologist Cigdem I. Akman, MD , recently joined to launch a dedicated Pediatric Epilepsy Surgery Program. Dr. Akman and pediatric neurosurgeon Eveline Teresa Hidalgo, MD , director of clinical research in pediatric neurosurgery, will co-lead the program to streamline and expand access to NYU Langone’s pediatric epilepsy surgical services. Here, Dr. Akman shares her plans for the program and her insights on emerging treatment modalities for child and adolescent epilepsy. She also discusses what she has learned over three decades about connecting with patients and their families. Dr. Akman, you started out practicing internal medicine in your native Turkey. How did you wind up as a pediatric epilepsy specialist in New York City? Dr. Akman: Originally, I wanted to study engineering, but my father encouraged me to go to medical school. I’m glad I listened to his advice. After an internship in internal medicine, I decided that my heart was in pediatrics, helping children and their caregivers. So I completed a residency training at Hacettepe University Children’s Hospital in Ankara, Turkey, where I was assigned to pediatric hematology. In 1995, I came to the United States for further training, and found myself strongly drawn to pediatric neurology. It happened the first time I witnessed a child—an 8-year-old girl—brought to the emergency room for involuntary movements, which were suspected to be seizures. Besides the intensity of her symptoms, what struck me was how terrifying her condition was for her parents and how eager they were to find answers. A few days later, an evaluation determined that she was having psychogenic non-epileptic events. This news was welcomed by her caregivers, though the therapeutic modalities required to treat her were complex. The incident opened my eyes to how critical it is to make the correct diagnosis—in this case, to distinguish epileptic seizures from symptoms that resemble them—and to provide counseling for patients’ families. That experience on my first day in pediatric neurology consult service made me realize that this was the field for me. “That experience on my first day in pediatric neurology consult service made me realize that this was the field for me.” Nearly three decades later, I feel privileged to join the superb epilepsy and child neurology team at NYU Langone. In fact, NYU Langone accepted me as a young trainee for an observership in pediatrics while I was still studying in Ankara, so I spent a month here before making the decision to move to the United States. I’m thrilled to be back. What’s your vision for the new surgical program at NYU Langone? I’ve always had a special place in my heart for epilepsy surgery, which can be remarkably effective in patients struggling with drug-resistant forms of the disease. Although this treatment modality has been around for more than six decades, it has remained underutilized and is still considered only as a last resort. The persistent misconceptions about this approach—that it is too risky, rarely successful, or only suitable for adults—highlight the work that needs to be done to broaden adoption and improve access to comprehensive care for young patients. “The persistent misconceptions about [epilepsy surgery]—that it is too risky, rarely successful, or only suitable for adults—highlight the work that needs to be done.” at NYU Langone has long been one of the largest medical and surgical treatment centers of its kind in the country—an accredited Level 4 epilepsy center, recognized for its expertise in providing the highest level of care. By launching a dedicated epilepsy surgery program within this framework, we aim to optimize coordination between the medical and surgical sides of our practice. The goal is to ensure that children living with drug-resistant epilepsy have access to comprehensive care, and to identify more rapidly those who could benefit from surgical intervention. To that end, I’ll act as a consultant for referring physicians to help facilitate a comprehensive evaluation process to assess patients’ eligibility. If a child is a candidate for surgery, Dr. Hidalgo and I will help our colleagues and the child’s caregivers to develop a treatment plan. I will also be part of a specialized clinical team in epilepsy to provide services for intracranial EEG monitoring, as well as functional mapping for cortical regions at bedside and in the operating room for patients who are potential candidates for surgery. In addition to surgery, what emerging therapeutic approaches are you particularly excited about? Traditional epilepsy surgery aims to remove the epileptic focus to achieve a seizure-free outcome. However, patients with drug-resistant epilepsy for whom surgery is not an option—whether because their epilepsy is nonfocal, or for other reasons—can choose from a growing number of approaches that may reduce the overall seizure burden and decrease the frequency of disabling seizures, thus improving quality of life. Neuromodulation is increasingly considered as an alternative treatment option for those individuals . Among the various forms of neuromodulation, vagus nerve stimulation is the best known and most established. But responsive neurostimulation and deep brain stimulation are emerging modalities to be considered for pediatric age groups. We’re also seeing progress in developing treatments for rare epilepsy syndromes that result from mutations affecting a single gene. Early-stage clinical trials are underway for gene therapies aimed at curing these disorders. It’s going to take time, but we’re inching closer and closer. Over your three decades as a pediatric epilepsy specialist, what insights have you gained about delivering excellent care? The rewarding thing about pediatric epilepsy is the impact you can make in decreasing seizure burden, preventing related complications, and allowing the child to grow and be independent. By choosing the right therapy, you can profoundly change the course of a young person’s life. I remember a 5-year-old presenting with seizures characterized by intermittent, severe shoulder pain. Initially, an epilepsy diagnosis was not considered because of the fact that seizures are not painful in general. This child had been admitted to the hospital numerous times for the same symptoms, and she was first evaluated for herpes zoster infection. EEG was later performed to rule out seizure, but it revealed no obvious correlation with her painful events. Her brain MRI was also unrevealing for any structural abnormality. Eventually, however, she received a diagnosis of drug-resistant focal epilepsy based on the persistent, stereotyped clinical events and emerging abnormalities on her repeat EEGs. “Achieving goals for treating a child with epilepsy depends on teamwork, and on trust built between the patient, caregivers, and physicians.” The girl underwent intracranial EEG monitoring to determine whether she was a candidate for epilepsy surgery. Her evaluation demonstrated that her seizure focus was located 2 centimeters below the brain surface and localized to the sensory cortex, which resulted in her pain symptoms at the time of seizures. After removal of the epileptic cortex, she became seizure-free. She graduated from college a few years ago and is now studying to become a special education teacher. This is one of many experiences over the years that helped shape my approach as a clinician. Achieving goals for treating a child with epilepsy depends on teamwork, and on trust built between the patient, caregivers, and physicians. Epilepsy treatment is not one-size-fits-all; it has to be tailored based on the child’s needs and diagnosis. As physicians, we must be careful listeners and observers to establish the right diagnosis, and we must remain open-minded toward treatments with which we may be unfamiliar or lack experience. It’s also important to understand that caregivers’ perception of treatment options may be affected by cultural, socioeconomic, and religious factors. So communication and transparency are critical elements of epilepsy care. We’ve got to take the time to describe the condition and treatment options thoroughly. When we don’t know the answers, we should be willing to say so. Although being assertive can be difficult, we have to remember that parents can feel overwhelmed by the details and by the responsibility of making tough choices on behalf of their children; it’s our job to help them make a decision. All this is critical for creating trust. Patients and family members are desperate for someone they can lean on during this difficult journey. Cigdem I. Akman, MD, is a clinical professor of neurology and medical director of the Pediatric Epilepsy Surgery Program. Her research centers on improving the diagnosis and treatment of childhood-onset epilepsy. Snapshot AI Reconstructs Unique Speech from Brain Signals: How It Works & Where It Could Lead Unique speech decoding and synthesizing system could yield neural prostheses that mimic a patient’s own voice. New AI Tool Measures Stroke Impairment in Less Than 60 Seconds Heidi Schambra, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health The AI-generated COnfidence-Based chaRacterization of Anomalies (COBRA) score quantifies stroke motor impairment in under one minute using data from wearables and video. It strongly correlates with the Fugl-Meyer Assessment, the gold-standard for stroke sensorimotor evaluation, which takes upward of an hour to complete. COBRA is currently intended for research use only, but has the potential to support continuous and standardized monitoring of patient recovery. The AI framework may be ideal for applications with limited patient data, as the model was trained on healthy subjects and detects deviations from the norm. The evaluation of upper extremity impairment is key to guiding and adapting rehabilitation protocols that support recovery in patients with stroke. Current assessment tools, including the gold standard, the Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA), are time-consuming and require in-person administration by a trained clinician. To solve this problem, Heidi Schambra, MD , an associate professor of neurology and rehabilitation medicine at NYU Langone Health; Carlos Fernandez-Granda, PhD , an associate professor of mathematics and data science at New York University; and their research teams developed a new framework. Based on artificial intelligence (AI) and data-driven, it automatically quantifies impairment. Their work was npj Digital Medicine “Think about having a system that effortlessly automates patient assessment and monitoring,” says Dr. Schambra. “It could provide real-time, continuous feedback, saving time and providing clinicians with actionable information.” Anomaly Detection The COnfidence-Based chaRacterization of Anomalies (COBRA) score was designed based on anomaly detection. The approach incorporates AI models trained exclusively on wearable sensor and video data from healthy individuals. “Anomaly detection involves training a model to recognize patterns of movement that are normal or expected. If the model encounters an unfamiliar pattern, it will raise an alert.” “Anomaly detection involves training a model to recognize patterns of movement that are normal or expected,” explains Dr. Schambra. “If the model encounters an unfamiliar pattern, it will raise an alert.” The anomaly-detection framework is tailored to a specific medical condition, like stroke. This is achieved by training AI models to predict, for example, the upper body motions required for a healthy individual to raise a drinking glass with their arm. When the models are presented with data from a patient with arm impairments due to stroke, the average model confidence drops in proportion to severity, allowing for quantification. “When presented with data from patients with impairments, the model quantifies their deviation from the healthy population,” says Dr. Schambra. Moving Beyond the Gold Standard According to Dr. Schambra, the FMA scale remains the gold standard, but it’s far from perfect. In fact, the tool is the current “rate-limiting step” in the evaluation of upper body impairment after stroke. “The FMA takes specialized training in order to administer,” says Dr. Schambra. “It can take up to an hour to complete, which few busy therapists have the time for. After three hours of rehab each day, patients are also very tired. We need something faster and less burdensome for everyone.” “We need something faster and less burdensome for everyone.” In their recent publication, the research teams showed that the COBRA score, computed automatically in under one minute, strongly correlates with the FMA. They compared both assessments across several movements and activities, including arranging objects on a table or shelf, putting on eyeglasses, brushing hair and teeth, and eating. Although the system isn’t ready for full-scale clinical deployment, it’s an exciting first step. “This technology is a way to support therapists in their delivery of rehabilitation training,” says Dr. Schambra. “They could use the COBRA scores to better focus on problem areas and to track what’s working and what’s not. It will enable us to deliver therapy in a more standardized fashion.” For next steps, the researchers will prioritize refining the framework, moving beyond proof of concept. The team plans to expand their testing of the COBRA framework in hundreds of stroke patients to ensure its generalizability. “Our results suggest that fine-tuned annotations describing clinically relevant attributes can be useful, even if they are only available for healthy individuals.” Moreover, the framework could be suitable for applications where it is difficult to obtain large-scale databases of patients with different degrees of impairment or severity, since it only requires data from a healthy cohort of moderate size, Dr. Schambra explains. For instance, the team is applying the framework to quantify knee osteoarthritis severity using MRI scans. “Our results suggest that fine-tuned annotations describing clinically relevant attributes can be useful, even if they are only available for healthy individuals,” notes Dr. Schambra. Vascular Neurology, Neurology Heidi Schambra, MD, is an associate professor of neurology and rehabilitation medicine and director of research strategy in the Department of Neurology. Her research interests include the development of new interventions to help patients recover from stroke. Dr. Charles Marmar on the Promise of Precision Medicine in Psychiatry Charles Marmar, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health. , the Peter H. Schub Professor of , where he is chair, sat down with Marc K. Siegel, MD , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM to discuss the current mental health crisis and the future of psychiatry treatment. Sirius XM subscribers can hear the full conversation ; the extract below has been edited for length and clarity. Dr. Siegel: We’re having a mental health crisis in this country. Why? And what can we do about it? Dr. Marmar: It’s very complicated. I don’t think it’s entirely a crisis. I think it’s partially an awakening. I don’t view it through the lens of a sickness in society. It is true that there are some unique stressors. It is true, for example, that the challenges faced by Gen Z, by young people in middle school, high school, and early college now, are because of the inordinate amount of time they spend on devices. I was discussing this with my family. They went to see MJ: The Musical this weekend for Mother’s Day. And my 14-year-old granddaughters were saying that they’ve deeply identified with the anxiety and stress that Michael Jackson felt as a public figure, because they are exposed in social media as public figures. They’re not Michael Jackson, they’re not creative geniuses, but they empathize deeply with the fate of people who have no privacy and whose image can be damaged or destroyed through the flick of a button. So that does account for new forms of social anxiety, but with it comes a much deeper social awareness. “The notion of mental health and emotional stress and anxiety and depression has become normalized and part of society and part of primary care.” When you and I were children, if we didn’t feel well, we went to see the school nurse. What [children now] do when they don’t feel well is they go to speak to the school psychologist. The notion of mental health and emotional stress and anxiety and depression has become normalized, and part of society and part of primary care. You’re a leading expert on post-traumatic stress disorder. What’s going on in the world right now in terms of post-traumatic stress, and what can we learn from it? Well, the world has always been troubled. It’s not clear to me that rates of trauma exposure are necessarily higher now than they were. I mean, after all, if you go back through historical periods when we lived more in tribal structures, we were very prone to illness and predatory forces of animals. We had very little protection against powerful acts of nature. We’ve always lived in a dangerous, uncontrollable, and unpredictable world. Most of us have seen the Oppenheimer movie. The threat of nuclear war is the threat of existential threat to all of humanity. There are new threats, for sure, but 2 percent of the entire world’s population was killed during World War II. So, we’ve always lived in very dangerous times. You’re working on precision medicine, which is applying personalized solutions using genetic understandings of variations and differences. How does that apply to post-traumatic stress disorder? Can artificial intelligence help you? We use it in precision medicine, or at least we use a somewhat more limited version of it, machine learning. So in our precision medicine studies of post-traumatic stress, we ascertain blood-brain imaging studies, cognitive studies, and others. We may have 2 million features to look at in each individual. And we use machine learning programs like Random Forest [classifiers] to find which of those features carries a signal to help us use drug A versus drug B. So that’s a simpler-use AI. “ At the really creative edge, AI is being developed to create psychotherapy avatars.” At the really creative edge, AI is being developed to create psychotherapy avatars. I’ve seen an example of one being developed by [the U.S. government’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, in which you sit down with this AI avatar and you tell them how you’re feeling. I did that, and they responded to me. My initial experience of the avatar’s response was that it was about as good as an empathic therapist. That s pretty good. That’s not bad. And by the way, think about how stigma-reducing that is. If you’re an active-duty military personnel, who would you rather talk to, Charlie Marmar or talk to an avatar? What about the way that you’re going to apply precision medicine in a family therapy unit or in a clinic? How is it going to be applied in psychiatry? One thing we need to be able to do is we need to be pragmatic. Millions of molecular features on each person in routine clinical care will have to be targeted. Ideally, what we would like to do is find those features in blood that are reliable enough to inform diagnosis and guide treatment for stress, anxiety, depression, alcohol, drug abuse, personality challenges, and so on, and have them be simple, affordable, and accessible enough that you, as an excellent primary care doctor, can bake them into your annual blood panel. So, you’ll get lipids, you’ll get liver-function tests, renal-function tests, and you’ll get psychiatry precision medicine tests. And they will just be part of a routine exam. And when you send your patient to the lab, we’ll get those marked. What tests am I going to do in the blood? I’m going to check serotonin levels, dopamine levels? We’re working on it. If I didn’t hold a patent on it, I would talk to you about it. What does the future hold for alcohol use disorder? First to say about alcohol use disorder, it’s very profound. It’s very prevalent. It takes a huge number of lives every year. It is horribly disorganizing to a person’s life, health, and career. And there are terrible tragedies from alcohol use disorder. We have new treatments, of course. We have [Alcoholics Anonymous], AA, and we have some therapies that are very helpful, but we have FDA-approved medications. We have three of them right now: acamprosate, disulfiram, and naltrexone. We have new ones in development. And there is great hope that we will be able to have precision medicine. I’m doing a large precision-medicine clinical trial to determine for whom topiramate, an anticonvulsant, is the best treatment for stress and alcohol. Where are we heading in mental health? We’re heading to, first, a major societal change in which mental health challenges such as stress, anxiety, and depression are considered part of life in the way infection and physical injury are considered part of life. They’re baked into mainstream medicine, and they will no longer carry stigma and shame. And children who are being anxious will go to their school counselor and not go to their school nurse with headaches and backaches and other difficulties, which are a proxy for their emotional problems. So it’s going to be normalized. It’s going to be part of primary care. One out of three of your patients in your primary care practice every day has a primary or secondary mental health problem, and it’ll be part of everyday medicine, and people will feel comfortable to disclose it. Second, we’re going to have safe and specific treatments, not just psychotherapy, not just medications, but direct ways to modulate the circuits in the brain to relieve these conditions. Charles R. Marmar, MD, is the Peter H. Schub Professor and Chair in the Department of Psychiatry at NYU Langone. Dr. Marmar’s research has led to breakthroughs in our understanding of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) through the study of police officers, soldiers in combat, veterans, and civilians who have been exposed to sudden, usually life-threatening events. He serves as director of NYU Langone’s PTSD Research Program. Unique Study Tool Prepares Physicians for Sports Medicine Board Examination Salvador E. Portugal, DO, MBA. Source: NYU Langone Health Every year, hundreds of physicians take the board exam for the Certificate of Added Qualification in Sports Medicine (CAQSM). Yet resources to help them prepare for the test have long been scarce. at NYU Langone Health is helping to fill that gap with a webinar series titled The New Metro: Sports Medicine Board Review Course. Launched in 2021 by Salvador E. Portugal, DO, MBA , medical director of Rusk’s sports rehabilitation program, and colleagues, the online offering is one of just a handful of CAQSM board review courses in the United States—and the only one that features presentations by leading experts from multiple academic institutions. Initially conducted only in real time, the course recently added an on-demand component so that participants across the country can access lecture content whenever they choose. Here, Dr. Portugal discusses The New Metro’s unique approach, and how it was influenced by his own experience as an athlete and a clinician. Dr. Portugal, please give us an overview of Rusk Rehabilitation’s sports medicine board review course. To begin with, what does it cover, and how is it structured? Dr. Portugal: The New Metro is a three-day course, held live online each June, that succinctly reviews high-yield board exam topics for the CAQSM. It features 18 hours of lecture content, delivered by some of the brightest sports medicine experts from institutions across metropolitan New York and beyond. Current primary care and PM&R [physical medicine and rehabilitation] sports medicine fellows are invited to attend, as are recertifying sports medicine physicians who plan to take the annual exam. “The New Metro features 18 hours of lecture content, delivered by some of the brightest sports medicine experts.” The content is based on a blueprint provided by the American Board of Family Medicine, which administers the exam, and the goal is to prepare participants for everything the test might throw at them. By the end, clinicians should be able to describe diagnostic protocols, treatment options, and return-to-activity guidelines for sport-related conditions and injuries; the management of a wide range of medical emergencies; the indications for use and mechanism of action of therapeutic drugs; and the impacts of performance-enhancing substances and drugs of abuse. They’ll be ready to answer questions about sport-specific joint kinematics and risk factors for injury, as well as the responsibilities of a team physician. This course is unique not only in its subject matter but in its multi-institutional roster of instructors. What led you to design it that way? In 2021, I was talking with Surein Theivakumar, DO —who at the time was one of my sports medicine fellows—about ways our program could collaborate with other sports medicine programs throughout New York City. It struck us that there were very few options nationwide for sports medicine board review courses, and that a collaborative course would provide the widest range of expertise and professional perspectives. “It struck us that there were very few options for sports medicine board review courses, and that a collaborative course would provide the widest range of expertise and professional perspectives.” Initially, we ran The New Metro entirely as live webinars. But last year, we added on-demand access to the lectures and PowerPoint materials. The obvious benefit is that it allows participants to study on their own schedule. Another advantage is that they can pause the videos. It can be challenging to absorb so much content all at once. This way, if there’s a topic people want to pay extra attention to, they can stop, look up more information, and replay the segment as often as necessary. [Recordings from this year’s course can be accessed online until November 30.] How do you choose your lecturers? We rely on our extensive professional network of physician educators, and on the recommendations from program directors of participating fellowship programs from within the New York City region. Our speakers have included , assistant professor of orthopedic surgery at NYU Langone and head team physician of U.S. Men’s Ski Jumping; Dean W. Padavan, MD , clinical assistant professor of medicine at Thomas Jefferson University, associate program director of the Atlantic Sports Health primary care sports medicine fellowship, and associate internist for the New York Jets; and Russell F. Camhi, DO , a primary care sports medicine physician with Northwell Health Orthopedic Institute and the head team physician for Hofstra University. We also offer lectures and Q&A sessions led by the course directors, who include myself and several Rusk Rehabilitation colleagues: Dr. Theivakumar, clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine and associate director of the PM&R residency program; , clinical assistant professor of orthopedic surgery and rehabilitation medicine and a physician for the U.S. Ski team; Haruki Ishii, MD , clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine; and Jina Libby, DO, former NYU Langone sports medicine fellow and current sports medicine physician at Penn State Health—State College. You’re the director of NYU Langone’s sports medicine fellowship program. Does the course play a role in that pedagogical effort? Absolutely. Besides preparing our fellows for the board exam, the course helps them gain broader insights and experience. Our current fellows are always invited to serve as course co-directors. That often provides their first exposure to the behind-the-scenes workings of continuing medical education, and what the process entails. In addition, several prior fellows have opted to continue as course instructors after their training—some of them after they’ve become faculty members at other institutions. You’re an athlete as well as a physician. How does this course reflect your own experience in both of those realms? I was a student–athlete in high school and at Fordham University. Like many of my peers, I sustained multiple injuries and often underwent rehabilitation through physical therapy. Serendipitously, faulty advice from my father—an ear, nose, and throat surgeon—to keep pushing through my pain motivated me to find my own answers to my ailments. This quest ultimately led me to become a sports medicine physiatrist. “We’ve got to do all we can to educate clinicians in this high-demand and rapidly evolving field.” My experience in multiple sports when I was younger, and an active martial artist now, gives me an understanding of what athletes are looking to achieve—to push their bodies to the limit, and to get back in the game as soon as possible. And my experience as a sports medicine doctor helps me understand how important it is to educate physicians in this relatively new subspecialty. The American Medical Society for Sports Medicine was founded in 1991, and it still has only about 5,000 members. There aren’t enough physicians to meet the needs of athletes on the sidelines, whether they’re professionals or ordinary gym-goers. And in our aging society, there’s a huge need for doctors to help keep people active throughout their lifespan. I hope this course will become a collaborative model for others across the country. We’ve got to do all we can to educate clinicians in this high-demand and rapidly evolving field. Salvador E. Portugal, DO, MBA, is an assistant professor of rehabilitation, medical director of Sports Medicine Rehabilitation, and director of the Sports Medicine Fellowship Program. His research interests center on improved rehabilitation therapies for sports-related spinal and musculoskeletal conditions. Bringing Full Attention to Pediatric Chronic Pain Jinpu Li, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Chronic pain impacts up to one-third of children and adolescents worldwide , but remains underdiagnosed and undertreated. This is due in part to an insufficient understanding of the root causes of pain and a shortage of interdisciplinary teams specializing in its treatment. Double board-certified in pediatric rehabilitation medicine and pain management, Jinpu Li, MD , NYU Langone Health’s director of pediatric chronic pain rehabilitation, prioritizes a multipronged approach to pediatric pain. Here, he explains his approach and the importance of integrated care in effectively managing chronic pain in young patients. Dr. Li, you emphasize education as a central element of your approach to chronic pain treatment. Can you expand on that? Dr. Li: By the time I see many of my patients, they have seen multiple specialists in other fields. And I’ve found that one of the most important things I give my patients as we begin their treatment is the simple acknowledgment that their pain exists and is very real. So I start by explaining the pathophysiological basis of pain. “I use the analogy of ‘camera’ and ‘snapshot.’ The brain acts as the camera; when tissue is injured, a signal is sent to the brain, which takes a snapshot and stores the image, registering it as pain.” I use the analogy of “camera” and “snapshot.” The brain acts as the camera; when tissue is injured, a signal is sent to the brain, which takes a snapshot and stores the image, registering it as pain. Normally, once the tissue heals, the brain deletes the snapshot, resolving the pain. But for some people, due to various reasons, the brain holds on to the snapshot and does not delete it, causing ongoing pain despite there being no tissue injury. Additionally, sometimes the brain is hypersensitive, taking snapshots of normal physiological functions, leading to pain perception without any actual injury. Many patients feel relieved after hearing this. They feel heard and understood. This is the first step of healing. What types of conditions do children typically present with in your practice? We see children and adolescents with a wide variety of pain-associated conditions, including musculoskeletal and spinal pain, chronic postsurgical and post-trauma pain, chronic secondary visceral pain, chronic neuropathic pain, and chronic headache and orofacial pain. Examples of these conditions are chronic pain related to sports injuries, herniated disc, facet-mediated back pain, neuropathic pain related to nerve injuries, and pain associated with joint hypermobility. We also frequently see primary pain disorders, in which the pain is not caused by an underlying disease or injury. Examples include complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) and amplified musculoskeletal pain syndrome (AMPS), which is similar to fibromyalgia and involves heightened pain perception. What is your general approach to treating these patients? Our approach is team-oriented and highly tailored to meet the needs of each patient and their family. We begin with a thorough intake appointment that assesses the patient’s complete medical history, psychological comorbidities, and functional status. We also consider the family’s history and explore how the patient’s pain may result from—or contribute to—certain family dynamics. Working closely with physical therapists, occupational therapists, social workers, and other specialists, we develop a comprehensive treatment plan that aligns with the patient’s and family’s specific needs and goals. “We also consider the family’s history and explore how the patient’s pain may result from—or contribute to—certain family dynamics.” The treatment plan typically includes a combination of medical interventions—such as oral medications, various muscle, joint and spinal injections, imaging-guided nerve blocks, and minimally invasive surgical procedures like implantable neuromodulation devices—alongside physical and occupational therapies and pain psychology. Can you tell us more about how pain psychology plays a role in your team approach to patient care? Pain management truly integrates both body and mind, as psychological factors can both contribute to and result from pain. For instance, a child with a history of abuse is at high risk for developing chronic pain. And children who live with pain often then have concomitant diagnoses of anxiety or depression. The anticipation of pain can lead to avoidant and maladaptive behaviors, as the child wants to do anything to avoid the onset of pain. This is why we collaborate closely with psychologists and social workers. They treat the entire family, providing cognitive–behavioral techniques to help children improve their coping skills, along with mindfulness practices and other support for parents and family members. What are some of the latest advancements in pain medicine that you might incorporate into a care plan? One of the exciting advancements in pain management is the emergence of neuromodulation. I am closely following the research on using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in managing chronic pain. We started using neuromodulation techniques like peripheral nerve stimulation and spinal cord stimulation for certain cases of refractory chronic pain in adolescents. “I think it’s a strength that in our field of pain rehabilitation, we’re focused on improving function, not simply reducing pain.” Importantly, pain management often requires trying several treatment approaches to find what works. For instance, for the past year, I have followed a patient who presented with erythromelalgia, which causes pain and burning in the lower extremities. The patient was experiencing frequent emergency room visits and hospital admissions for pain crises. After attempting a combination of medications and periodic nerve block treatments without significant improvement, we implanted a neuromodulation device, a peripheral nerve stimulator, which has meaningfully reduced his pain. His pain still fluctuates, but we were able to keep him out of the emergency room for the past 10 months. Finally, what inspired you to specialize in both pain management and pediatric rehabilitation medicine? My interest stemmed from observing the profound impact pain has on a patient’s function and quality of life during my pediatric rehabilitation medicine training. We see many patients who suffer from chronic pain, which profoundly impacts their overall wellbeing, both physically and emotionally. I think it’s a strength that in our field of pain rehabilitation, we’re focused on improving function, not simply reducing pain. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Pain Management, Pediatric Rehabilitation Jinpu Li, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine and director of pediatric chronic pain rehabilitation. Double board-certified in pediatric rehabilitation medicine and pain management, he specializes in multidisciplinary approaches to managing chronic pain in children and adolescents. Psilocybin and Psychotherapy May Dramatically Reduce Alcohol Consumption New study links psilocybin to a major decline in heavy drinking and complete cessation in nearly half of participants. IMAGE SOURCE: NYU Langone Health Excessive alcohol use kills roughly 95,000 Americans every year. In a new study in JAMA Psychiatry , NYU Langone Health researchers and collaborators found that two doses of psilocybin derived from psychedelic mushrooms, in combination with multiple psychotherapy sessions, reduced heavy drinking by 83 percent on average among participants with alcohol dependence. By contrast, the double-blind placebo-controlled trial of 93 men and women—the first of its kind—found that participants given two doses of an antihistamine placebo reduced their heavy drinking by 51 percent. Eight months after the first dose, 48 percent of those given psilocybin stopped drinking altogether—double the rate for the placebo group. “Our findings strongly suggest that psilocybin therapy is a promising means of treating alcohol use disorder, a complex disease that has proven notoriously difficult to manage,” says , director of NYU Langone’s Center for Psychedelic Medicine and senior author of the study. “Our findings strongly suggest that psilocybin therapy is a promising means of treating alcohol use disorder, a complex disease that has proven notoriously difficult to manage.” All participants received up to 12 psychotherapy sessions during the study and reported the percentage of heavy drinking days during weeks 5 to 36. Hair and fingernail samples helped confirm the presence or absence of alcohol use. All participants, including those initially treated with placebos, were offered a third session that included psilocybin. The research team plans to conduct a larger, multicenter trial under the FDA’s Investigational New Drug Application sponsored by the nonprofit life science company B.More Although more research is needed to confirm the drug’s effects and clarify appropriate dosing, Dr. Bogenschutz says the results so far suggest it may aid other disorders. “This approach may prove useful in treating addiction to other drugs such nicotine, cocaine, and opioids.” NYU Langone Health Presenters at the APA 2024 Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health’s experts in psychiatry joined colleagues from around the world at the American Psychiatric Association’s 2024 annual meeting in New York City. The theme is “Confronting Addiction from Prevention to Recovery.” View full conference information and abstract titles Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Poster Psychiatric Sequelae of Osmotic Demyelination Syndrome: A Literature Review and New Case of ODS-Induced Mania NYU Langone Presenter : Hager Koraym Saturday, May 4, 2024 Presidential Session The Leading Edge of Psilocybin Therapeutics: Psychiatric and Existential Distress in Advanced Cancer, Alcohol Use Disorder, and Major Depression Stephen Ross, MD : 10:30AM–12:00PM : Rooms 3D04, 3D09, Javits Center Sunday, May 5 General Session Advances in Molecular Biomarkers for PTSD Diagnosis, Risk, and Complications Katharina Schultebraucks, PhD : 8:00–9:30AM : Room 1E13, Javits Center Tuesday, May 7 Words Will Never Hurt Me: Examining the Stigma of Addiction NYU Langone Discussant Ayana Jordan, MD, PhD : Room 1E10, Javits Center Wednesday, May 8 Advancing Precision Medicine for Alcohol Use Disorders NYU Langone Speaker : 3:45–5:15PM : Room 1E08, Javits Center Classifying Glioma in Minutes New AI-driven screening system could transform the molecular diagnosis of diffuse gliomas. New research from neurosurgeon , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health’s , unveils DeepGlioma , a deep learning–based screening system that could allow clinicians to accurately predict diagnostic mutations associated with diffuse gliomas without the need for conventional sequencing methods. With the capacity to achieve an accuracy of 93 percent in less than 90 seconds, the artificial intelligence (AI)–based tool enables rapid molecular subtyping to occur in the operating room. “Instead of waiting weeks to know what kind of glioma a patient has and how to treat it, we get that information in a matter of minutes.” “DeepGlioma is a game changer for patients,” Dr. Orringer says. “Instead of waiting weeks to know what kind of glioma a patient has and how to treat it, we get that information in a matter of minutes. This expedites care and allows the surgeon in the operating room to tailor the surgical approach.” NYU Langone was involved in testing the diagnostic screening tool and was one of the first clinical sites in the country to use the technology. Trained on Label-Free Imaging Molecular classification is vital to the diagnosis and treatment of diffuse gliomas, enabling accurate prognostication and personalized treatment. “Access to molecular diagnostic testing remains variable for brain tumors, which complicates prognosis determination, surgical decision-making, resection goals, and selection of chemoradiation regimens,” says Dr. Orringer. “Without real-time genetic testing, it’s not possible to know how aggressive we should be surgically and whether a patient is likely to respond to conventional chemotherapy and radiation.” In designing the system, the researchers trained the model using a multimodal dataset that included stimulated Raman histology (SRH) , a breakthrough in optics that allows for imaging of fresh tissue without sectioning or staining. “Our platform for DeepGlioma is self-contained and can be rolled into any operating room; all that is needed is a plug.” “Using SRH images only, DeepGlioma can determine molecular classification in less than two minutes without the need for tissue processing or human interpretation,” Dr. Orringer explains. “Our platform for DeepGlioma is self-contained and can be rolled into any operating room; all that is needed is a plug.” Streamlining Molecular Classification While the system can scale to an arbitrary number of diagnostic mutations, Dr. Orringer notes the focus is on the major molecular diagnostic alterations used by the World Health Organization Classification of Tumors of the Central Nervous System (WHO CNS5) classification scheme: IDH mutations, 1p19q chromosome co-deletion, and ATRX loss. Remarkably, the new system achieved a mean molecular classification accuracy of 93.3 percent, ranging from 91.0 to 94.7 percent, depending on the mutation subtype. Across various institutions, the performance of the system generalized well with distinct patient populations, clinical presentations, as well as personnel and infrastructure, Dr. Orringer says, helping providers to define surgical goals with a better-calibrated risk–benefit analysis. Ensuring Access As they employ DeepGlioma for more and more cases, Dr. Orringer and his team are utilizing the tool to expedite the delivery of precision surgical and medical care. “Having a fully autonomous system that is separate from the traditional pathology infrastructure allows patients from lower-resource settings to access effective treatments sooner,” Dr. Orringer says. “Some commercial detection assays are not universally accessible across the country.” He and his team are also developing the system behind DeepGlioma for other cancers. “The use of optical histology and AI to diagnose cancer will have implications for the way that many types of cancers are treated,” Dr. Orringer says. “People with cancer who receive treatment in a setting that has access to the most rapid and readily available molecular diagnostics have the potential to get a higher standard of care.” Neurosurgery, Skull Base Surgery Daniel A. Orringer, MD, is an associate professor of neurosurgery and pathology. His clinical interest lies in skull base surgery and surgical management of brain tumors. His research interests include bioinformatics, neuroimaging, and novel applications of artificial intelligence in medicine. Training Future Neurologists to Conduct Successful Virtual Exams A blend of traditional education methods and simulation teaches essential skills for virtual neurology evaluation. Neil A. Busis, MD A team of neurologists at NYU Langone Health has crafted a first-of-its-kind training program to instruct neurology residents in performing virtual exams. The unique program includes a simulation component, enabling trainees to rehearse with an actor portraying a patient they will likely see in clinical practice. “Our curriculum provides much-needed opportunities for future neurologists to hone their telemedicine skills, which will become increasingly important as the field evolves,” says , an associate professor of neurology and director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Neurology Residency “Our curriculum provides much-needed opportunities for future neurologists to hone their telemedicine skills.” Since its launch in 2020, the three-year teleneurology program has educated at least 68 neurology residents. A recent study in Neurology: Education details the program’s effectiveness and discusses strategies for adjusting hands-on examination methods for virtual settings. Adapting to the Virtual Setting While virtual healthcare technology has existed in some form for decades, physicians still receive little formal training in its use. “There are some suggested guidelines for teaching teleneurology, though no standard approach among programs,” says Dr. Kurzweil, who served as senior author on the new study. “This is a new frontier. We’re learning alongside trainees what will ensure the best outcomes for learners and patients.” The researchers found that neurology residents preferred various methods for teleneurology training, such as didactics with slides, live demonstrations, simulated experiences, and starting with live patients to reading materials or articles. Simulation Cements Proper Techniques Unlike many other training courses that emphasize telehealth communication skills, the NYU Grossman School of Medicine curriculum’s unique simulation component features a virtual exam. In these 10-minute sessions, residents are expected to diagnose their “patients” and discuss a treatment plan. Actors play “patients,” mimicking the symptoms of meralgia paresthetica, which results from injury to a nerve. “Since we often see patients with meralgia paresthetica, which is commonly misdiagnosed, we decided this was a practical teaching opportunity for virtual exams,” says study co-author , a clinical professor of neurology who also serves as director of the telehealth program in neurology. “It’s also much easier for actors to portray sensory loss than to accurately replicate motor loss found with other conditions.” “Instructing patients to perform a self-assessment requires excellent verbal communication and creativity—if you don’t have the conventional in-office tools, what’s a reasonable workaround?” During the simulated exam, trainees are graded on hard skills such as accuracy and thoroughness. Soft skills, or “webside manner,” like maintaining eye contact, are also evaluated as these behaviors, the authors say, can be lost during the shift from in-person exams to remote ones. Additionally, trainees are required to guide the on-screen “patient” in adjusting their camera so their whole body is visible, and in resolving basic technical issues like unmuting. “Overcoming challenges like poor lighting in the patient’s home, which are realities in daily practice that can limit our ability to evaluate the patient accurately, are an essential skill,” says Dr. Busis. Since the trainees cannot touch the patients in a virtual encounter, Dr. Busis stressed how they must be able to coach patients to conduct self-assessments. “Instructing patients to perform a self-assessment requires excellent verbal communication and creativity—if you don’t have the conventional in-office tools, what’s a reasonable workaround?” Curriculum Increases Comfort with Virtual Exams The new report surveyed trainees with no prior education in virtual care and no previous experience with teleneurology before the program. The authors found that comfort with virtual exams improved from an average score of 2.8 out of 5 (5 representing maximum confidence) to 3.8 out of 5 after the first year. Interest in telehealth grew as well, increasing from an average score of 3.5 out of 5 (5 representing the highest interest) to 4.3 out of 5. The Future of Teleneurology Training Telehealth has become an integral part of medical practice, particularly in neurology clinics where a blend of in-person and remote encounters are emerging as the standard for routine care . According to a recent report from Dr. Kurzweil, Dr. Busis, and colleagues, both patients and neurologists agree that the vast majority— over 90 percent —of teleneurology encounters are effective. Multimodal learning with a simulation component appears to be the key to success in teleneurology training. The team, alongside other colleagues, has added a telestroke simulation to the curriculum for senior residents and may also incorporate new neurologic symptoms like headache, weakness, and dizziness into the simulated encounters. Neil A. Busis, MD, is a clinical professor and associate chair of technology and innovation in the Department of Neurology, and director of NYU Langone’s telehealth program in neurology. His research interests include telehealth, health information technology (HIT), coding, documentation and billing for medical services and procedures, burnout, career satisfaction, and physician wellbeing. Boosting Erectile Function with a Healthy Plant-Based Diet This month’s case presentation describes a patient with multiple urological complaints, including erectile dysfunction, who experienced significant improvements after adopting a healthy plant-based diet. As urologists, we have the power not only to help our patients with their genitourinary issues but also to optimize their overall health and longevity. Counseling patients about eating more healthy plant-based food is an important way to promote cardiovascular and metabolic health, which has also been associated with better erectile and urinary function—a win-win. Urologists may not have the time, resources, or expertise to directly support patients with a change in nutrition. However, building collaborations with qualified professionals and providing referrals are essential ways to deliver additional patient support. Below, we share how we counseled the patient on healthy plant-based eating. We also outline the resources and referral networks we use to connect patients with additional information and expert support. The patient was on tadalafil to manage his erectile dysfunction and Flomax for urinary symptoms. He expressed confidence in making a lifestyle change and was referred to a health coach and dietitian. After several months on a vegan diet, he discontinued both medications, lost weight, and improved his hypertension. Patients can be directed to the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine Plant Powered Metro New York , and other resources for further support in adopting a plant-based diet. Patient Case The patient, a 69-year-old male with a history of hypertension and being overweight, presented to the urology clinic with erectile dysfunction and lower urinary tract symptoms. He was taking tadalafil (20 mg, as needed) and Flomax (0.4 mg, daily) for these conditions. The patient had read about a lower risk of erectile dysfunction with a plant-based diet and was interested in adopting the diet. He expressed motivation to change his diet within the next month and scored his confidence in making a lifestyle change as a 9 out of 10. Because the patient was ready to change his diet, we discussed his goals and what resources he would need. We referred the patient to a health coach and dietitian experienced with plant-based nutrition and provided a list of resources. During subsequent visits, we reviewed his action plan, discussing progress and barriers. After successfully adopting a vegan diet for several months, the patient was able to discontinue medication for erections and urinary symptoms. In addition, at the most recent follow-up, he had lost 11 pounds and his blood pressure had improved (Figure 1). Figure 1. A summary of the patient’s health status and medication usage before and after adopting a plant-based diet. Source: NYU Langone Health These health improvements provided satisfaction and motivation for him to continue the plant-based diet. Plant-based diets are popular due to the many benefits for health and the environment. According to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, vegetarian and vegan diets are nutritionally adequate at all stages of life and provide health benefits. Indeed, there is a large body of literature supporting the role of plant-based diets in the prevention and management of chronic diseases, including diabetes and cardiovascular disease. This is particularly germane to erectile function, often called the “canary in the coal mine” (meaning an early warning sign) for cardiovascular disease. Several recent studies have looked at the role of plant-based dietary patterns in erectile function. For example, using data from a survey performed in the United States, Carto et al. reported that greater consumption of a healthy plant-based diet (e.g., fruits, vegetables, grains, and legumes) was associated with a significantly lower risk of erectile dysfunction after adjusting for other factors. Similar results were reported by Yang et al. in a large cohort of male health professionals, in which greater consumption of healthy plant-based food was associated with a lower risk of erectile dysfunction. With regard to lower urinary tract symptoms, a study from Australia reported that a “vegetable” dietary pattern was associated with significantly lower odds of surgically treated benign prostatic hyperplasia. Even among patients with a history of prostate cancer treated by radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy, consuming more plant-based food and less animal-based food was associated with significantly better scores for posttreatment erectile function and urinary quality of life. National guidelines recommend notifying patients that erectile dysfunction is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and recommending lifestyle modifications like diet and physical activity. Healthful behavior change is an individualized process that evolves over time. In the field of lifestyle medicine, the transtheoretical model is often used to conceptualize the stages of change, which includes precontemplation, contemplation, preparation, action, maintence, and termination. The goal is to identify each patient’s readiness to make a change in a particular behavior, such as their diet, and to help them develop an action plan if they are considering a change before the next visit. A helpful strategy is for the patient to set SMART goals (“Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Timebound”) for the desired behavior. To direct patients to more information, the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine website offers numerous handouts and recipe guides for plant-based nutrition, as well as a directory to locate nearby health professionals with expertise in plant-based nutrition. There are also many online programs with dietitians and health coaches who can provide more hands-on support for patients, such as the 21-Day Plant Powered Jumpstart program , offered virtually by Plant Powered Metro New York. 1. Melina V, et al. J Acad Nutr Diet . 2016;116(12):1970-1980. 2. Yannas D, et al. Int J Impot Res . 2024;36(4):452–453. 3. Carto C, et al. . 2022;161:76–82. 4. Yang H, et al. BJU Int . 2022;130(4):514–521. 5. Ambrosini GL, et al. . 2008;101(7):853–860. 6. Loeb S, et al. . 2024;130(9):1618–1628. 7. Burnett AL, et al. J Urol . 2018 Sept;200(3):633–641. 8. Prochaska JO, Velicer WF. Am J Health Promot . 1997;12(1):38–48. Stacy Loeb, MD Stacy Loeb, MD, a professor of urology and population health, is a member of Perlmutter Cancer Center and a noted expert in prostate cancer. Her research interests include early detection, active surveillance, the importance of lifestyle, and the impact of social media on decision-making. Jelmyto Helps Patient with Single Kidney Avoid Dialysis A CT scan of the patient's UTUC. Source: NYU Langone Health. Patient interest in kidney-sparing treatment options for upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is growing. At NYU Langone Health, we have seen excellent success with one such treatment, chemoablation with UGN-101 (Jelmyto), and treat a large number of patients with the agent. In this Case of the Month, we present an elderly patient with a low-grade UTUC obstructing her only remaining kidney. Over a decade earlier, she had undergone a nephroureterectomy for the disease, but now faced a new primary tumor threatening her renal function and raising the possibility of dialysis. Hoping to avoid such an outcome, she sought alternatives to surgery that could preserve her quality of life. Her case underscores the important role of innovative therapies that provide patients the chance to spare their kidney. A 91-year-old female with a history of UTUC and prior left nephroureterectomy presented with a tumor obstructing her right ureter. She underwent endoscopic resection to preserve her remaining kidney, followed by UGN-101 induction to reduce recurrence risk. She remains recurrence-free over 18 months later. At NYU Langone, UGN-101 is widely used, with around 10 percent of cases involving patients with a single kidney. The 91-year-old female patient was healthy and functional, with a history of upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC). Over 11 years ago, she underwent a left nephroureterectomy for this disease. Unfortunately, due to the recurrent manner of UTUC and the metachronous occurrence, she presented now with a low-grade tumor obstructing her remaining kidney. The tumor was located in the ureter on the right side (Figure 1) and she was experiencing a slight decline in her renal function. She wanted to avoid dialysis, which would be necessary if her kidney were to be removed. Figure 1: A CT scan of the patient’s upper tract urothelial carcinoma, located in her right ureter. We performed a ureteroscopy with laser resection of the ureteral tumor and complete visual removal of the mass. A ureteral stent was left in place after surgery to prevent any ureteral stricture from the area of the laser ablation. The patient had a strong understanding of the disease and recognized the risk of recurrence to be upward of 60 percent or even higher in some reports. The patient expressed ongoing worry about her age, which made further surgical resections and ablations less ideal. At this point, we discussed Jelmyto, a reverse thermal hydrogel installation of mitomycin. The gel is liquid at low temperatures, allowing it to be easily instilled via a catheter, and it solidifies at body temperature, enabling prolonged local drug exposure to the tumor site. It is typically administered once weekly for six weeks. In the first experiences with this formulation in a real-world setting, the complete response rate of the cancer after a complete endoscopic ablation was over 75 percent in patients with low-grade UTUC. Long-term data is not yet published, but at the American Urological Association’s 2024 annual meeting, an abstract was presented on this topic: in those patients who had a complete response after UGN-101 induction, the median survival was not reached, and recurrence-free survival at 24 months was over 85 percent. For our elderly patient seeking options to improve her overall quality of life, the results have been very similar. After complete endoscopic tumor removal and induction UGN-101, she has remained recurrence-free for over 18 months. UGN-101 was approved in early 2020, and since then its use for low-grade UTUC has continued to grow in the United States. At NYU Langone, we offer it alongside other new therapies for patients with all disease states. The experience has been positive and has been widely adopted by all urological oncologists and endourologists within the Department of Urology . Roughly 10 percent of our UGN-101 treatments are for patients with a single remaining kidney. In the case presented, a patient with one kidney sought to avoid a rigorous dialysis regimen in her remaining years. Tumor resection made this possible, while UGN-101 helped address her concerns about recurrence. To support informed treatment decisions, the American Urological Association released its first UTUC guidelines in 2023. The resource allows for risk stratification and the judicious use of aggressive treatments for high-risk disease and less-aggressive therapies and interventions for low-risk disease. Woldu SL, et al. Urol Oncol . 2023;41(3):147.e15-147.e21. Feldman AS, et al. . 2024;211(5S):e891. Coleman JA, et al. . 2023;209(6):1071-1081. Katie S. Murray, DO Katie S. Murray, DO, is a professor of urology and chief of the urology service at Bellevue Hospital Center. Her clinical practice focuses on prostate, testicular, bladder, kidney and ureter cancers. TURED for Midline Prostatic Cyst MRI of the patient’s prostatic cyst. Source: NYU Langone Health We recently made an uncommon diagnosis: a recurrent midline prostatic cyst causing partial ejaculatory duct obstruction and infertility. The patient had severe oligoasthenozoospermia and reported ejaculatory symptoms of delayed, uncomfortable, and low-volume ejaculate. While cyst aspiration at another center temporarily alleviated the ejaculatory symptoms, they quickly returned. At our office, transrectal sonography confirmed the cyst’s recurrence, prompting a successful transurethral resection of the ejaculatory ducts (TURED). This Case of the Month highlights the rare but treatable nature of midline prostatic cysts as a cause of male infertility, with properly performed TURED offering significant symptom relief and improved fertility outcomes. The 28-year-old male presented with fertility concerns and ejaculatory symptoms, with a history of an aspirated midline prostatic cyst and bilateral varicoceles. Given that cyst aspiration is not definitive, and varicoceles could not explain all symptoms, we suspected cyst recurrence, confirmed by imaging. TURED and bilateral microsurgical varicocelectomy were performed without complication. Ejaculatory symptoms resolved immediately postsurgery; semen analysis at 10 months showed sustained success, with normal ejaculate volume and near-normal semen parameters. The 28-year-old male presented to our clinic for evaluation and management of ejaculatory pain and male infertility. He complained of chronic low-ejaculate volume and post-ejaculatory pain. Previous evaluation for male fertility concerns and painful ejaculation had shown low sperm count and motility, as well as abnormal morphology. A prostate MRI one year prior to his visit revealed a 19-cc prostate with a midline cyst measuring 1.9 cm × 1.5 cm × 1.3 cm (Figure 1). The patient had undergone cyst aspiration under ultrasound guidance. This resulted in a transient improvement in ejaculate volume and resolution of peri-ejaculatory pain. Within three months, the patient developed recurrent symptoms with low-ejaculate volume and pain after ejaculation. Figure 1. MRI of the patient’s prostate with a midline prostate cyst measuring 1.9 cm × 1.5 cm x 1.3 cm (arrow). Source: NYU Langone Health Medical Examination Physical Exam—Genitourinary Findings Penis Normal circumcised appearance, no lesions or palpable plaques. Glans without hyperemia, normal meatus. Epididymis Non-tender bilaterally. No evidence of fullness. Testis Palpable in dependent scrotum bilaterally symmetric. Both slightly small (15 to 20 cc), no masses palpable. Vas Deferens Palpable bilaterally. Left grade 3 varicocele. Right grade 1 varicocele Labs Results Semen Analysis Volume 1.4 mL (low; no collection issues) pH 8.2 Concentration 4 million/cc (low Motility 14% (low) Morphology 2% (low) Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) 4.8 (normal) Testosterone 679 ng/dl (normal) Diagnosis and Management Varicoceles may result in abnormal semen parameters. However, the resurgence of painful and low-volume ejaculate suggested a recurrence (refilling) of the prostatic cyst as the cause of the patient’s symptoms, as cyst aspiration is typically not definitive. After transrectal sonography confirmed recurrence of the previously aspirated midline prostatic cyst (Figure 2), the patient was diagnosed with partial ejaculatory duct obstruction due to midline prostatic cyst, along with bilateral varicoceles. Figure 2. Transrectal sonogram showing a recurrence of the patient’s prostatic cyst. Source: NYU Langone Health The patient underwent TURED and bilateral microsurgical varicocelectomy. The verumontanum, which had a typical appearance that was full and bulbous, was resected using pure cutting current using a conventional resectoscope. Flow of milky-appearing fluid from the open ducts was seen after the resection. Intraoperative appearance of the verumontanum before and after TURED are shown below (Figures 3 and 4). Figure 3. Intraoperative appearance of the verumontanum before TURED. Source: NYU Langone Health Figure 4. Intraoperative appearance of the verumontanum after TURED. Source: NYU Langone Health Following the procedure, the patient had complete resolution of the ejaculatory pain with increased ejaculate volume. He remained asymptomatic at a 10-month follow up. Semen analysis showed a normal volume ejaculate (2.5 cc) with improved Kruger morphology, normal concentration, and sperm motility. This case demonstrates how TURED can offer rapid and lasting symptom relief for patients with ejaculatory duct obstruction. TURED is minimally invasive and highly effective, addressing both fertility concerns as well as discomfort related to ejaculation and urination. The procedure provides durable outcomes, making it a rewarding option for patients. Ejaculatory duct obstruction is a rare cause of male infertility that is diagnosed in 1 to 5 percent of infertile men. The condition may be congenital or acquired, with the latter typically due to post-inflammatory scar formation in the prostate or seminal vesicle calculi. Congenital causes are attributed to ejaculatory duct atresia or stenosis and utricular cysts. Utricular cysts have been historically referred to as Müllerian (paramesonephric) duct cysts. However, immunohistochemical studies have shown evidence that the utricle is not a Müllerian duct remnant and instead has a distinct origin from the dorsal wall of the urogenital sinus. Cases of partial ejaculatory duct obstruction may progress to complete obstruction and diagnosis may be challenging, requiring a high index of suspicion. Although vasography can provide a definitive diagnosis, transrectal sonography with a 7 MHz probe alone is sufficient to establish the diagnosis, as it is less invasive and highly reliable. Our patient met two of the three typical indications criteria for intervention and treatment (infertility, ejaculatory pain, and hematospermia). Initially described for treatment of ejaculatory duct stenosis more than 50 years ago, TURED is performed using standard or pediatric resectoscopes under general or regional anesthesia using cutting current to minimize scarring and restenosis of the ejaculatory ducts. Since many patients undergoing the procedure are diagnosed during infertility workup and are younger, with smaller prostates, special attention should be paid to avoid bladder neck, rectal, or sphincteric injuries when resecting the verumontanum. Although use of the O’Connor drape for seminal vesicle palpation has been described, I have not found this to be necessary in the vast majority of cases. Ejaculation may resume in one week. Urethral catheterization for 24 hours after the procedure is optional. In my experience, relief of ejaculatory pain is usually immediate, but it may take a few months to achieve maximal ejaculatory volumes and improved semen parameters. The vast majority of appropriately selected patients with low volume azoospermia due to ejaculatory duct obstruction will have a dramatic improvement in ejaculatory volume and semen parameters, but 10 to 15 percent may convert to normal volume azoospermia due to more proximal or epididymal obstruction. Patients with partial ejaculatory duct obstruction will similarly see significantly improved ejaculate volumes, though a small percentage may become azoospermic due to postoperative ejaculatory duct fibrosis and are well advised to cryopreserve sperm prior to the procedure. Pryor JP, Hendry WF. Fertil Steril . 1991;56(4):725-730. Shapiro E, et al. . 2004;172(4 Pt 2):1753-1756. Modgil V, et al. Nat Rev Urol . 2016;13(1):13-20. Belker AM, Steinbock GS. . 1990;144(2 Pt 1):356-358. Xu B, et al. . 2011;108(2):263-266. Urology, Male Sexual and Reproductive Health Hossein Sadeghi-Nejad, MD, is a professor of urology and of obstetrics and gynecology. Dual fellowship-trained in male infertility and sexual dysfunction, he specializes in treating infertility, erectile dysfunction, Peyronie’s disease, testosterone deficiency, and urinary sytmptoms caused by an enlarged prostate. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AHA 2024 Scientific Sessions Chicago, IL. Source: Getty Images Our researchers and clinicians in cardiovascular disease will be joining colleagues from around the world at the American Heart Association 2024 Scientific Sessions in Chicago. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty. Saturday, November 16 Moderated Digital Poster Fitbit-Measured Physical Activity Is Inversely Associated with Incident Atrial Fibrillation Among All of US Patients (Abstract ) NYU Langone Presenters: Souptik Barua, PhD 10:00–10:05AM Zone 3, Moderated Digital Poster 15 Oral Abstract Session Sex Differences in Psychosocial Factors and Angina in Patients with Chronic Coronary Disease Anais Hausvater, MD 10:30–10:40AM S103BC Presentation Dissecting the Cellular and Molecular Immune Interactions in Coronary Artery Disease 10:30–10:42AM S105ABC Demystifying Chest Pain in Women Harmony R. Reynolds, MD 1:48–1:57PM Main Event II Sunday, November 17 Discussion: Next Directions in Interventional Science Binita Shah, MD NYU Langone Moderator: Sunil Rao, MD 9:09–9:11AM S103D Suicide and Self-Harm with GLP-1 Receptor Agonists: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials 10:20–10:25AM Zone 3, Moderated Digital Poster 13 [Learn more about this new study by Dr. Heffron and team .] Clinical Studies and Trials to Reduce Cardiovascular Risks from Air Pollution: Where Are We Now? NYU Langone Speaker: Jonathan Newman, MD, MPH 3:45–4:00PM S401D PFAS: What They Are and Why Your Heart Cares Sharine L. Wittkopp, MD, PhD 4:00–4:15PM Monday, November 18 SARS-CoV-2 Infection Triggers Pro-atherogenic Inflammatory Response in Human Coronary Vessels 8:05–8:23AM What To Do When Myocardial Injury After Noncardiac Surgery (MINS) Happens Nathaniel R. Smilowitz, MD 9:00–9:05AM Impact of 2022 AHA/ACC/HFSA Heart Failure Guideline Value Statement Publication on Medicare Drug Coverage Policies Amrita Mukhopadhyay, MD 12:00–12:05PM Zone 3, Moderated Digital Poster 12 Healthcare Leadership Bridging the Care Gap: A Role for Geriatric Outpatient Clinics Geriatricians are uniquely skilled in managing the complex illnesses, comorbidities, and related conditions that occur in older adults, as well as navigating care for common cognitive, functional, and psychosocial issues. Yet despite the increasing median age of the United States population, the workforce of physicians trained in geriatrics is expected to decrease over the next decade. Recognizing this problem, the Department of Medicine at NYU Langone Health is launching an ambulatory consultative clinic to combat the growing shortage of geriatricians. Complementing the work of NYU Langone’s , the new clinic will focus on expanding access to geriatric services for those living in the community. “At our new clinic, the aim is to address complex issues in an approachable, holistic manner.” James M. Lai, MD “Lengthy wait times and delays frustrate patients, their caregivers, and providers,” says , associate director of clinical services for the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care , and leader of the project. “In addition, a single inpatient admission is rarely sufficient to resolve every issue. At our new clinic, the aim is to approach complex issues in an approachable, holistic manner.” Needs Going Unmet Unmet care needs for older adults include frailty, falls, polypharmacy, cognitive disability, and memory loss. Owing to complexity and time constraints, primary care providers often have difficulty in managing these conditions, leaving patients without proper support. “Reduced access to specialized geriatric care can lead to unwanted health outcomes and increased morbidity,” says Dr. Lai. “Reduced access to specialized geriatric care can lead to unwanted health outcomes and increased morbidity.” Accordingly, a key focus of the new clinic will be comprehensive geriatric assessment, which incorporates prognosis, quality of life, life expectancy, and each patient’s personal values into the decision-making process. “By focusing on the patient’s goals and desires, we can better assess the benefits and risks of interventions, like medications or surgery,” Dr. Lai explains. Moreover, Dr. Lai emphasizes that these assessments do not always lead to the initiation of a new prescription or surgical intervention, but may involve deprescribing or forgoing surgery to avoid postoperative complications. For example, while a surgeon may deem some older patients good candidates for surgery, their cognitive or functional state may preclude them from achieving successful postoperative rehabilitation. Better Outcomes Through Collaboration Concerning access to care, Dr. Lai acknowledges that it remains a problem nationwide. He believes that providing specialized geriatric care in outpatient settings could help to expand access. With the future in mind, Dr. Lai envisions the potential for pioneering and innovative collaborations with NYU Langone’s subspecialist divisions and Through this synergy, he hopes to develop novel outpatient-based rehabilitation protocols for older adults who have cognitive impairment, imbalance, poor vision, urinary incontinence, and swallowing issues. “Possible new partnerships might help to close the knowledge gaps in geriatric rehabilitation,” Dr. Lai says, “and may lead to improvements in healthcare provision for this high-risk population.” James M. Lai, MD, is associate director of clinical services for the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care. An internist, he specializes in treating Alzheimer’s disease, dementia, and memory loss. Our doctors are located in Manhattan. 212-598-2391 At NYU Langone’s Center for Brachial Plexus Injuries, our experts work together to provide advanced treatment for adults and children who have a brachial plexus injury . Combining our decades of surgical expertise and leading-edge surgical technologies, we treat patients from around the United States and the globe. A brachial plexus injury is damage to the major nerves that cross the junction between the neck and the arm. These injuries occur most commonly as a result of motor vehicle accidents, but they can also result from other traumas or injuries, such as birth injuries. Mild brachial plexus injuries may heal with time, while more complex injuries may require surgery to avoid loss of movement or function in the shoulder, arm, or hand. We partner with you to ensure the best possible recovery after a brachial plexus injury. Each patient is evaluated by our team of specialists that includes orthopedic surgeons, hand and wrist surgeons, physical therapists, occupational therapists, and neurologists. Our experts tailor an individualized treatment plan for you, which may include physical therapy, occupational therapy, or surgery. If surgery is recommended, recent advances in microsurgical techniques allow our doctors to offer new and effective approaches for brachial plexus injuries. We can perform nerve reconstruction microsurgery to reduce pain and restore sensation and motor movements in the arm, elbow, wrist, and hand. We also perform procedures including tendon and muscle transfers, contracture release, and other reconstruction techniques. Our Therapy Program In many cases, our patients are able to avoid surgery after following our well-designed therapeutic interventions. Our therapy program, which includes experts from , aims to help patients maintain muscle strength and the full range of motion in the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and hand joints. We also prevent muscle loss through electrical stimulation and help ease pain through transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS). Advanced imaging, occupational therapy rooms, and surgical and recovery facilities are all provided through the Center for Brachial Plexus Injuries. We also offer for those who would prefer not to travel or who would rather receive care in the comfort of their own home. Our surgeons treat brachial plexus injuries in adults and children. Andrew E. Price 877-224-3201 The Center for Ankle Arthritis at is committed to providing a full range of treatment options for people with . Patients can often find pain relief and an improvement in their symptoms with nonsurgical treatments, such as physical therapy, bracing, orthotics, or injections. is needed, our orthopedic foot and ankle surgeons offer cutting-edge reconstructive procedures. If you have mild or moderate arthritis, minimally invasive arthroscopic debridement to remove damaged tissue and cartilage in your ankle may be an option. We were the first hospital in the greater New York area to offer the Scandinavian Total Ankle Replacement system, or STAR™. This prosthesis may be an option for some people with advanced arthritis to provide both pain relief and preserve motion. Its benefits include quicker recovery time and better long-term success rates than earlier ankle replacement procedures. For those who are not a candidate for ankle replacement, you may consider ankle fusion—in which a surgeon fastens the ends of damaged bones together, so they heal and fuse—as a good option to provide pain relief and increased function. Our team’s extensive experience ensures the best diagnosis and treatment plan for your ankle arthritis. Lew Schon Raymond Walls Mapping the Molecular Mechanisms of Stress & Depression Carla Nasca, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health Major depressive disorder affects an estimated 21 million adults in the United States every year. While the highly complex mental condition is influenced by the integration of multiple genetic, epigenetic, metabolic, and environmental factors, one thing is clear: stress in early life can play a critical role in triggering the disorder. Here, Carla Nasca, PhD , assistant professor of psychiatry and of neuroscience and physiology at NYU Langone Health, discusses her work on mitochondrial mechanisms of epigenetic function for the regulation of brain plasticity in response to stress. The research, she believes, may have identified a new biological marker for depression and, potentially, a much-needed new precision-medicine strategy How does stress change the brain on a structural and molecular level? Dr. Nasca: We know from decades of work that stress can lead to imbalances in neural structures—some serving cognition, decision-making, anxiety, and mood. These alterations to the neural structures are usually adaptive responses, but in some people they lead to psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders, and they need to be treated. The imbalances, in turn, affect systemic physiology via neural, immunological, and metabolic mediators. In the lab, we discovered a metabolic mediator of this response to stress known as LAC, or acetyl-L-carnitine. LAC is a mitochondrial metabolite, which is best known for its role in fatty acid oxidation. Our lab and work from other groups has shown that LAC also serves as a metabolite that regulates epigenetic function. Why is epigenetic regulation so important? Think of a book. To read the words inside, we need to open the book. Similarly, epigenetic regulation acts as the key that unlocks chromatin structure, allowing DNA to be read and genes to be expressed. “Mitochondria produce a substantial proportion of the cell’s substrate for epigenetic regulation.” Our group and others have shown that mitochondria produce a substantial proportion of the cell’s substrate for epigenetic regulation. This means that there’s integration between the mitochondria and nuclei of a cell to allow epigenetic regulation and the expression of genes that are important for synaptic plasticity. What effect does LAC have in rodent models of stress? We find that administration of LAC in rodents leads to adaptive responses to stress. When we boost certain mitochondrial pathways in rodent models, we boost the ability of cells to produce LAC, and we see a corresponding change in epigenetic regulation that ameliorates the response to stress. When the pathway is suppressed and cells produce less LAC, there are maladaptive responses to stress. In animals, we can observe these changes at the level of dendrites, key structures of neurons that allow for cell-to-cell communication. We find that in rodent models of chronic, prolonged stress, dendrites in the hippocampus as well as other areas of the brain are shorter as compared to mice that did not experience stress. We can ameliorate these changes in dendritic plasticity, what we call structural plasticity, by administering LAC. An illustration of a neuron. Source: Getty Images In our rodent models of chronic stress, we also observe that the animals start with lower levels of LAC than control mice. When we administer LAC to fill this gap, they showed a rapid antidepressant response, which takes only 3 days to occur, versus other drugs that require 14 days to show an antidepressant response. How might your results inform clinical practice? We’ve started translating these findings to humans and are seeing similar relationships between LAC levels, stress, and depression as to what we’ve observed in rodents. In many of our papers and unpublished work, we find that childhood trauma, in the form of emotional neglect and emotional abuse, is linked to aberrant mitochondrial metabolism. Indeed, people with major depressive disorder who also report the highest levels of childhood trauma—life stress events in childhood—have the lowest levels of LAC . Their levels are much lower than in control subjects. “People with major depressive disorder who also report the highest levels of childhood trauma have the lowest levels of LAC.” Another important finding is that these same individuals with the lowest levels of LAC had a diagnosis of treatment-resistant depression. This was important to us because it suggested that LAC could be an effective antidepressant by itself and also when co-administered with other drugs to potentially give patients the capacity to respond to other antidepressant medications. But we need to conduct additional studies in humans to better understand the molecular mechanisms of this signaling pathway before patients take any LAC. We replicated our initial finding, that antidepressant nonresponders had the lowest LAC levels, in two cohorts. Now there are multiple papers from other investigators showing the deficiency of LAC as a potential biomarker for depression. So, you’re moving toward a potential clinical trial? Yes, absolutely. The direction we’re moving toward is precision medicine. We want to define and characterize the phenotype of treatment-resistant depression genetically, epigenetically, and metabolically, and look to see if patients respond to LAC alone or as a supplementation strategy. Depression is such a complex phenomenon; can you speak to the need to integrate multiple factors to better understand how patients vary in their response to antidepressants? That’s the spirit of precision medicine. The integration of multiple biological pathways can be an opportunity for us to better define and better characterize the various ways in which major depressive disorder can present. It will not be LAC alone that cures depression. But if we can identify additional biological factors beyond LAC that are involved in this signaling from mitochondria to cell nuclei and in the regulation of genes important for brain plasticity, we can characterize those people who will benefit from targeted treatments. To hear more about Dr. Nasca’s research on biomarkers for depression, check out this episode of Insights on Psychiatry, a podcast from NYU Langone. Carla Nasca, PhD, is an assistant professor of psychiatry and of neuroscience and physiology. Her research focuses on mitochondrial mechanisms of epigenetic function in the stress response system and main central nervous system diseases. Top Honors Awarded to Cardiovascular Researcher for Work on Inflammation Kathryn J. Moore, PhD, receiving the Grand Prix scientifique from the Institute de France. Source: NYU Langone Health This past June, the Institut de France co-awarded its Grand Prize in Science (Grand Prix scientifique) to Kathryn J. Moore, PhD , director of NYU Langone Health’s Cardiovascular Research Center . The award—the largest of its kind in cardiovascular research—honored Dr. Moore for her pioneering research on how the innate immune system recognizes excess cholesterol in the body and responds by inducing the chronic inflammation that drives atherosclerosis. Here, Dr. Moore reflects on the prestigious prize, her groundbreaking discoveries that led to it, and what excites her about the future of cardiovascular research. Dr. Moore, what have you learned about how macrophages can trigger the kind of chronic inflammation that drives atherosclerosis? Dr. Moore: In atherosclerosis, macrophages enter the artery wall to clear low-density lipoproteins (LDL) that accumulate due to hypercholesterolemia. But once the macrophages ingest the LDL, they can become overloaded with cholesterol and trapped in the vessel wall—a good deed gone bad. The accumulating macrophages call in more immune cells to help resolve the issue, but this backfires, forming chronic inflammation. It’s that chronic, low-grade inflammation that drives plaque formation in the arteries over decades, leading to atherosclerosis. “Once the macrophages ingest the LDL, they can become overloaded with cholesterol and trapped in the vessel wall—a good deed gone bad.” My work focuses on trying to understand what makes beneficial inflammation turn chronic, what the key pathways are, and whether we can reverse them. The Grand Prix scientifique was awarded specifically for my discovery of how macrophages recognize LDL , which is by using the same receptors designed to detect and defend against pathogens. By engaging these defense receptors, LDL triggers the production of potent pro-inflammatory molecules and inflammation. What about your work on RNA molecules—how are they involved in cholesterol metabolism and inflammation? My lab discovered that microRNAs can repress the expression of genes required for the macrophage to rid itself of the excess cholesterol. By targeting these microRNAs, we enhanced cholesterol efflux from the macrophages, which allowed the cells to leave the artery wall and reduced inflammation in the plaque. Illustration of microRNA. Source: Getty Images I’m also really interested in long non-coding RNAs , many of which are not conserved between humans and preclinical animal models. For years, drug development was based on studies in animal models. But when the drugs were tested in humans, researchers found different results or they didn’t pan out. Understanding that there can be a layer of transcriptional control or genome organization in humans that is not conserved in other animals can offer tremendous insights. For the last 10 years, my lab has been studying how these human-specific long non-coding RNAs regulate biological processes, whether it’s cholesterol metabolism or inflammation in atherosclerosis. What are you most excited about in inflammation-related research, and what do you want to tackle next? Over the past five years, we’ve seen a revolution in the technologies available to us for research. We are now able to look at tissues at the single-cell level and use techniques like spatial transcriptomics to map cellular gene expression within tissue. It’s giving us unprecedented insight into the complexity of the tissues and the interactions between different cell types within them. For our work on inflammation in the plaque, we are using these technologies to interrogate unique cell types to understand the ones that contribute to plaque progression versus those types that contribute to regression. We want to know how cells are communicating in these different states, and we’re looking at gene expression profiles between the cells to understand what that communication might look like. What do you see as the next challenge to further improving treatments for cardiovascular disease? Lipid-lowering therapies have been highly successful at reducing cardiovascular risk, but many patients still go on to have a heart attack. Even people whose LDL has been lowered very dramatically continue to be at risk of having a cardiac event. “We need complementary therapies to lipid-lowering, and targeting inflammation in the plaque is one area that’s thought to hold promise.” Because of this, we need complementary therapies to lipid-lowering, and targeting inflammation in the plaque is one area that’s thought to hold promise. We seek to develop novel therapies that can convert chronic inflammation into self-resolving inflammation by targeting pathways that hinder its resolution. Finally, what does it mean for you to earn this prestigious award? It’s a tremendous honor to receive this prize, which celebrates the outstanding contributions to cardiovascular research that have been made by luminaries in my field. I have truly flourished in the collaborative and supportive environment at NYU Langone. It has taken my science to a different level. I’ve also been very lucky to work with many talented postdocs and graduate students. Really, this award recognizes the entire lab, past and present. I would not have made these discoveries without my incredible team. Cardiology, Cell Biology Kathryn J. Moore, PhD, is Jean and David Blechman Professor of Cardiology and a professor of cell biology. Her research centers around immune responses to cardiovascular disease, particularly plaque progression in atherosclerosis. AI-Generated Responses to Patient Questions on Thyroid Disease Are Accurate & Empathetic LLMs could be used to help clinicians respond to patient messages, potentially reducing workload. In a pilot study, one of the first of its kind to evaluate LLM performance in thyroid disease, LLM responses to patient questions were more accurate, complete, empathetic, and consistent than online physician responses. In order to reach clinical care, clinicians would be expected to review responses before they reach patients to reduce the risk of the LLM providing inaccurate information. Burnout among physicians is being fueled partly by patient electronic messaging. Recognizing this problem, a team of experts from NYU Langone Health came together to study whether large language models (LLMs), powered by artificial intelligence (AI), could be used to assist in responding to patient questions and reduce the clinician workload—focusing specifically on thyroid disease. At the 2024 American Association of Endocrine Surgeons (AAES) meeting, Kepal N. Patel, MD , presented data supporting this idea. Not only were LLM responses to patient questions about thyroid disease accurate, they were more accurate, complete, empathetic, and consistent than physician responses. “After ten hours of surgery, the last thing I want is to have to manually respond to 35 electronic messages.” “After ten hours of surgery, the last thing I want is to have to manually respond to 35 electronic messages,” says Dr. Patel, chief of the Division of Endocrine Surgery at NYU Langone. “As a busy surgeon, my goal is to be efficient with my administrative workload so I can focus on my patients and provide the best care.” Endocrine surgery fellow Rajam Raghunathan, MD, served as lead author on the study and was awarded the Jon Van Heerden Award for Best Paper at the 2024 AAES meeting. The study is one of the first to evaluate LLM responses in thyroid disease. Testing the LLMs The study involved randomly selecting 33 patient questions about thyroid cancer or thyroid disease from the Reddit website’s AskDocs section, an online health community where users can post questions about personal medical conditions and receive answers from verified physicians. The researchers then tested the ability of two different LLMs, ChatGPT-3.5 and GPT-4, to respond to these questions, comparing the LLM-generated responses with the verified physician responses from AskDocs. All responses were anonymized and scored for accuracy, quality, and empathy using a four-point Likert scale by seven blinded providers. Of the selected questions, 39 percent focused on thyroid nodules, 30 percent concerned thyroid cancer or cancer worry, 24 percent addressed hypo/hyperthyroidism or goiter concerns, and 6 percent involved postoperative complications related to thyroid surgery. Analyzing the Responses The team highlighted that when interpreting differences in quality ratings, the overall organization of the response must be considered, explaining that LLM responses often include a summary with bullet points, addressing the concerns raised by the patient, then structuring a response thereafter. In a sample electronic exchange about a high-risk TR5 thyroid nodule found on an ultrasound, a patient inquired about cancer risk. In this case, the online physician responded by encouraging the patient to get a biopsy for evaluation and potential treatment. However, the response lacked comprehensiveness, empathy, and synchronicity. Verified-Physician Response A TR5 nodule is considered relatively high-risk nodule and the risk of cancer is higher in these nodules. Either way, the nodule is small and they are recommending biopsy. I’d encourage you to get the biopsy done to further evaluate as while there’s an association, biopsy remains better at predicting actual risk in many cases. Depending on the pathology, they may recommend either half the thyroid be taken out, or the entire thing. In someone who is hyperthyroid there may be benefit to total thyroidectomy. This physician response was analyzed in the study. In contrast, the LLM responses were more comprehensive, empathetic, and synchronous, evidenced by their length, style, and structure. ChatGPT-3.5 A TI-RADS 5 (TR5) nodule, especially one that is taller than wide and solid, can be concerning, but it doesn’t automatically mean it’s cancerous. The risk of malignancy is higher with TR5 nodules compared to lower TI-RADS categories. However, many TR5 nodules still turn out to be benign. The best way to determine whether the nodule is cancerous or not is through a fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy. This procedure involves taking a small sample of tissue from the nodule and analyzing it for cancerous cells. The FNA results will provide more accurate information about the nodule’s nature. It’s essential to follow your healthcare provider’s recommendations and proceed with the FNA biopsy to get a definitive diagnosis. Thyroid cancer is generally treatable, especially when detected early, so timely evaluation and appropriate management are crucial. Your healthcare team will guide you through the necessary steps based on the biopsy results. GPT-4 A TR5 (TIRADS 5) classification on thyroid ultrasound indicates a high suspicion for malignancy, but it’s important to remember that not all TR5 nodules are cancerous. The classification is based on certain ultrasound characteristics, like being hypoechoic and taller-than-wide, which are more commonly associated with thyroid cancer. However, the definitive diagnosis of cancer can only be made through a biopsy. In your case, the presence of hyperthyroidism symptoms and a significant weight loss, along with the ultrasound findings, warrant a thorough evaluation. The recommended fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy of the hypoechoic nodule will provide more definitive information. FNA is a key tool in determining the nature of thyroid nodules, especially those with suspicious features. It’s understandable to be concerned about the possibility of cancer, but keep in mind that even in TR5 nodules, there are instances where the biopsy results come back benign. The outcome of the biopsy will guide the next steps in terms of treatment and management. Stay in close communication with your healthcare provider to discuss the biopsy results and the appropriate course of action based on those findings. Your medical team will consider your overall health, symptoms, and the biopsy results to provide the best care plan for you. These responses from ChatGPT-3.5 and GPT-4 were analyzed in the study. Some experts have raised concerns about LLMs providing dangerous and false information in response to patient questions. Although 13 percent of online physician responses were flagged as containing dangerous or false information, this only occurred with 1.3 percent and 0.4 percent of responses for ChatGPT-3.5 and GPT-4, respectively. “The results were striking. While LLMs or AI are not at a stage where they can replace us, they have a lot to offer in helping us perform better.” “The results were striking,” says Dr. Suh, associate vice chair of surgical innovation and principal investigator of the study. “While LLMs or AI are not at a stage where they can replace us, they have a lot to offer in helping us perform better.” For next steps, the researchers will prioritize the use of LLMs as a means to interact with patients seeking more information on thyroid nodules, thyroid cancer, and postoperative care instructions. Across all metrics, LLMs showed the best performance when answering questions related to these topics, Dr. Patel explains. “We see this technology playing a critical role in helping physicians respond to patients promptly and effectively,” says Dr. Patel. “The surgeon will still review the responses before they are shared with the patient, ensuring there is minimal concern that the LLM is providing false or inaccurate information.” Before broader implementation, the real-world safety, efficiency, and accessibility of LLMs need to be established. Future studies will test the ability of LLMs to appropriately triage and escalate patient safety concerns, as well as fact-check information and references. Endocrine Surgery, Head & Neck Surgery Kepal N. Patel, MD, is chief of the Division of Endocrine Surgery and director of the Thyroid Cancer Interdisciplinary Program. He specializes in surgical treatment of thyroid and parathyroid conditions. His research focuses on the link between Hashimoto’s disease and thyroid cancer. Cardiac Sarcoidosis Care Lung Sarcoidosis Care Skin Sarcoidosis Care Neurosarcoidosis Care Care for Skin Sarcoidosis , our dermatologists specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of . This inflammatory disorder, also known as cutaneous sarcoidosis, is diagnosed in about one-third of people who have sarcoidosis, and in the United States, most often affects Black women. To make an appointment with one of our dermatologists trained in sarcoidosis, please call 212-263-5889 Skin sarcoidosis causes abnormal clumps of immune cells, called granulomas, to form on the skin. They may appear as rashes, raised patches, or red or purple bumps, usually on the shins and ankles. In some cases, skin sarcoidosis can be more severe and cause sores or lesions on the face, which can affect your appearance and day-to-day life. Symptoms of skin sarcoidosis sometimes mimic those of other dermatologic conditions. To diagnose skin sarcoidosis, our dermatologists conduct a skin exam and may recommend a biopsy. Treatment for skin sarcoidosis includes that are applied directly to the skin and others that are injected locally, on the affected area. Our doctors may also prescribe oral or injectable medications. We work with patients and multidisciplinary experts within the Sarcoidosis Program to develop an approach and care plan that is best suited to each patient’s needs. Because sarcoidosis can affect multiple organs in addition to the skin, our dermatologists work in collaboration with pulmonologists, cardiologists, rheumatologists, nephrologists, neurologists, and other specialists to develop a comprehensive treatment plan for you. can accommodate appointments for patients who need to be seen urgently. If you’re unable to find an appointment with one of our providers using online scheduling, please call us at We have convenient locations in Manhattan. Care on Demand providers at NYU Langone offer prompt, top-quality primary care to adults who do not already have a primary care physician. We see patients on a walk-in basis—no appointment needed. No. 1 for Quality Care NYU Langone is ranked No. 1 of 115 participating comprehensive academic medical centers. Source: 2024 Vizient Quality and Accountability Ranking. Providers at Care on Demand treat a variety of common symptoms and conditions , from aches and pains to the , that do not require urgent services. Our Care on Demand locations are in convenient residential neighborhoods that are just a walk or subway ride away. Learn more about our Care on Demand services at our Upper East Side and West Village locations. Our providers take a thorough medical history and conduct a physical exam that may include measuring your blood pressure, temperature, and other vital signs. In addition, we test for viral illnesses like COVID-19 and the flu, or we may take a urine sample to check for a Our providers may write you a prescription or provide you with instructions for further care at home. Prompt Referrals for Follow-Up Care Our Care on Demand providers also ensure that you receive the follow-up care you need through our referral service. After your visit, we can schedule a follow-up appointment with one of our exceptional NYU Langone primary care doctors or specialists for further treatment or preventive care. Doctors throughout our expansive network of ambulatory care locations are dedicated to creating personalized treatment plans for all your health concerns. Our referral service gets you in the door faster with our top providers. Care on Demand Hours of Operation Care on Demand primary care services are available 8:00AM to 8:00PM, Monday through Friday; and 8:00AM to 6:00PM on Saturday. We are closed Sunday. For Emergencies If you or a loved one experiences a medical emergency, please call 911. Outside of these hours, please check out our Services We Do Not Offer Care on Demand is designed for patients who need same day access to primary care. If you are an existing NYU Langone patient and cannot see your primary care doctor right away, you can use Virtual Urgent Care for convenient access to a provider, often the same day, or schedule a Care on Demand does not offer . Please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency care location for medical emergencies such as chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, -related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in personal harm or harm to others. NYU Langone has hundreds of primary care doctors who can partner with you to address your healthcare needs. We have locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Queens. NYU Langone general surgeons provide world-class care for a wide range of conditions, from the most common to the highly challenging and complex. Our team offers surgical solutions for conditions affecting the abdomen and digestive tract, including the esophagus, stomach, gallbladder, liver, appendix, and pancreas, as well as diseases of the adrenal gland. NYU Langone Health has the highest quality of care and patient safety rankings of any healthcare organization in the country. We perform surgeries in Manhattan at NYU Langone’s , and in Brooklyn at NYU Langone Health is ranked No. 1 in patient safety and quality in the United States, reflecting our commitment to patient care. Our general surgeons are highly skilled in open, minimally invasive, and robotic-assisted surgery. Whenever appropriate, they use bloodless techniques to minimize the use of donor blood products. The team also has surgical expertise in the treatment of benign and malignant conditions, including tumors of the stomach and colon. These are some of the procedures we perform most often: appendectomy complex hernia repair and abdominal wall reconstruction fundoplasty or fundoplication, to treat gallbladder removal inguinal and umbilical hernia repair paraesophageal hernia repair upper endoscopy wound care, including debridement Our surgeons are part of renowned NYU Langone specialty centers and programs, including the Abdominal Core Health Program Bloodless Medicine and Surgery Program Our Surgeons Our doctors specialize in surgical treatment for a wide range of conditions. Mary Ann Hopkins Megan Jenkins Howard G. Liang Angeleke Saridakis Acute Care Surgeon Loic S. Tchokouani Medical dermatologists at NYU Langone specialize in treating a wide range of autoimmune connective tissue diseases that affect the skin. Our dermatologists have extensive training and experience in treating these rare conditions and are recognized as experts in this domain, frequently giving lectures on these conditions around the world. We develop individualized treatment plans for each of our patients, taking into consideration underlying medical conditions and other potential causes of autoimmune disease. Our team works closely with other medical specialists to ensure an all-inclusive treatment strategy. Our dermatologists are actively involved in scientific research, often working collaboratively with other medical specialists in these endeavors, ensuring thorough knowledge of the latest innovative therapies to treat autoimmune conditions. Skin Autoimmune Connective Tissue Diseases We Treat Our dermatologists are highly experienced in treating different autoimmune conditions affecting the skin. We specialize in treating a variety of autoimmune conditions affecting the skin, including the following: morphea and localized scleroderma systemic sclerosis eosinophilic fasciitis cutaneous sarcoidosis pyoderma gangrenosum cutaneous vasculitis polyarteritis nodosa Our Autoimmune Connective Tissue Disease Team Our doctors work together and collaborate with other NYU Langone specialists to provide the highest-quality treatment for autoimmune conditions affecting the skin. Alisa N. Femia, MD Dermatology, Skin Autoimmune Disorders Daniel R. Mazori, MD Andrea L. Neimann, MD Allergic & Contact Dermatology Services NYU Langone dermatologists have extensive experience and expertise in diagnosing , a form of skin inflammation that results from direct contact of a substance with the skin’s surface. Contact dermatitis often appears as a red, scaly rash and occasionally as blisters, crusting, and swelling. It can cause the skin to be itchy and even painful. To treat contact dermatitis, our doctors may prescribe oral medications or steroid creams. There are two types of contact dermatitis: irritant and allergic. Irritant contact dermatitis, the most common form, typically occurs after exposure to chemicals that irritate the skin. Allergic contact dermatitis occurs when a substance triggers an allergic immune response. Substances that commonly cause allergic contact dermatitis include metals, fragrances, plants, dyes, preservatives, latex and synthetic rubber, and other chemicals found in everyday items. Our doctors partner with you to understand your symptoms, review your detailed medical history, and examine your skin for signs of contact dermatitis. Patch Testing for Allergic Contact Dermatitis If our dermatologists suspect that allergic contact dermatitis is causing a rash, a patch test is the most effective diagnostic tool. NYU Langone dermatologists have been leading experts in the technique of patch testing since the 1930s, when the patch test was first brought to the United States. This allergy test is uniquely designed to identify the cause of contact dermatitis without the use of needles. The patch testing process typically occurs over three to seven days, and requires at least three visits with your dermatologist. In the patch test, a number of thin metal or flexible plastic chambers that contain a small amount of an allergen are applied to the back. The patch tests are removed after two days, at which point the skin is examined for evidence of irritation. You return to your doctor’s office after a day or more for a final reading, during which our doctors examine the skin for signs of allergic reactions. The allergens used in the test are found in everyday products as well as more unusual sources, and help distinguish which products or other exposures may be causing the rash. Once the patch testing process has concluded, patients are provided with a list of products to use that do not contain the chemicals that caused the reaction. Our Contact Dermatitis Team Our doctors are experts in the diagnosis and management of contact dermatitis and are skilled in the technique of patch testing for allergic contact dermatitis. David E. Cohen, MD, MPH Dermatology, Skin Allergy Dermatology Alexandra Flamm, MD Dermatology, Dermatopathology Theodora K. Karagounis, MD Emily C. Milam, MD We have doctors in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. To make an appointment, please call 212-263-0800 Pulmonary Intervention Surgery for Airway Conditions At NYU Langone’s Tracheal and Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program, our team of specialists manages conditions of the trachea, commonly known as the windpipe, and the bronchi, which are the two major airways leading from the trachea to the lungs. Our doctors are renowned experts in the use of minimally invasive to manage tracheobronchomalacia (TBM), in which the trachea and bronchi soften and collapse during breathing. Ours is one of the few programs in the Northeast to focus on treatment of conditions that affect the airway, using both surgical and nonsurgical minimally invasive approaches. These are some of the other conditions of the airway we commonly treat: tracheal stenosis, a narrowing of the trachea that typically occurs because of scarring after intubation tracheoesophageal fistula, or an abnormal opening between the trachea and the esophagus, the long, hollow tube that extends from the throat to the stomach trachea or bronchial tumors, both noncancerous and cancerous, including slow-growing carcinoid tumors Our tracheal experts include interventional pulmonologists, pathologists, thoracic surgeons, head and neck surgeons, head and neck reconstructive surgeons, and pulmonary rehabilitation specialists. Doctors from , including radiologists, radiation oncologists, and medical oncologists, may also be part of the care team. Together, we create personalized care plans to manage your airway health. Care may include interventional pulmonology procedures minimally invasive or open surgery , chemotherapy or immunotherapy, radiation therapy, and Our doctors diagnose and manage conditions of the trachea and bronchi Jamie L. Bessich Benjamin Cooper Andrew J. DeMaio Amie J. Kent Vivek Murthy Daniel H. Sterman Our thoracic surgeons may be part of your treatment team. NYU Langone medical oncologists or radiation oncologists at Perlmutter Cancer Center may help manage airway tumors. Pulmonary rehabilitation may be part of your recovery from surgery or other treatments. 212-263-7951 At NYU Langone’s Sarcoidosis Program, we provide diagnosis and comprehensive care for people who have . This rare and complex condition causes immune cells to clump together into masses called granulomas that can prevent an organ from functioning properly. There are many types of sarcoidosis , which are classified by the organs or tissues involved. Most often, sarcoidosis affects the lungs, lymph nodes, or skin, but it can occur anywhere in the body. Sarcoidosis may require treatment from several different specialists. We have been named a Sarocoidosis Center for Excellence by the World Association for Sarcoidosis and Other Granulomatous Disorders (WASOG) for our leadership, best practices, research, and training for sarcoidosis. One Team, Coordinated Care Our experts—pulmonologists, cardiologists, dermatologists, nephrologists, neurologists, ophthalmologists, and rheumatologists—work closely together to diagnose sarcoidosis and to create a comprehensive treatment plan for you. Our team coordinates your care across specialties to make your experience with us as seamless as possible. Advanced Diagnostics NYU Langone doctors have access to the most-advanced tools to diagnose sarcoidosis in any organ. These include advanced imaging using MRI and PET; flexible bronchoscopy; endobronchial, transbronchial, and endomyocardial biopsy; bronchoalveolar lavage; and endobronchial ultrasound–guided transbronchial needle aspiration. Such technologies enable doctors to accurately diagnose sarcoidosis and rule out other conditions with similar symptoms. Experts in Sarcoidosis Care Our comprehensive approach allows us to quickly identify and address symptoms and other complications related to sarcoidosis. For example, people with sarcoidosis have an increased risk of developing . Our nephrologists specialize in preventing and treating the sarcoidosis-related calcium imbalances that cause these stones to form. Our neurologists are experienced in managing complications of the nervous system associated with sarcoidosis, including optic neuritis, myelitis, and cranial neuropathies. Our dermatologists provide expert . We work closely with the entire team of doctors to diagnose sarcoidosis when it affects the skin and other organs, and treat skin-related symptoms. Our cardiologists and pulmonologists provide critical care for people who have advanced cardiac or pulmonary sarcoidosis. We also provide advanced therapies for pulmonary hypertension due to sarcoidosis. For those who are considering a heart or lung transplant or a left ventricular assist device (LVAD), we offer a smooth transition of care to Our multidisciplinary specialists meet regularly to discuss each patient’s diagnosis and work together to design a treatment plan that helps achieve the best outcome. When you are seen by an NYU Langone sarcoidosis specialist, you have access to an entire team of experts. They ensure that you receive the best and most-advanced care, including access to novel treatments through our ongoing research and Doctors at NYU Langone participate in an international registry and conduct to discover and evaluate new treatments for sarcoidosis. You and your doctor may discuss whether participating in a clinical trial is appropriate for you. A cardiologist, pulmonologist, or your personal physician may refer you to the Sarcoidosis Program, or you may refer yourself. You can also view our list of physicians and contact an individual provider directly to make an appointment. Our specialists include experts in pulmonology, cardiology, dermatology, neurology, nephrology, ophthalmology, radiology, and rheumatology. Doreen J. Addrizzo-Harris Program Co-Director, Pulmonology Program Co-Director, Cardiology Avrom S. Caplan Program Co-Director, Dermatology Rany Condos Alisa N. Femia Jeffrey Michael Yasha S. Modi Uveitis Specialist Nadia Pletukhina NYU Langone Dermatologic Associates Our experts treat all types of skin conditions, including skin sarcoidosis. As one of the highest-volume heart rhythm centers in the country, we offer advanced treatment for all types of heart rhythm disorders. We offer sophisticated technology to extend and improve the lives of people who have advanced heart failure. Skin and Cancer Unit We provide expert diagnostic and treatment services for all types of skin diseases, including skin sarcoidosis. Our experts perform heart, kidney, liver, lung, and pancreas transplants. Experts from NYU Langone’s Sleep Disorders Program can help with the diagnosis and treatment of severe or prolonged difficulties related to sleep. Our staff is experienced in the treatment and research of all types of sleep disorders. Our program includes a five-bed sleep unit outfitted with state-of-the-art recording equipment for sleep studies. We can also provide limited in-home or in-hospital monitoring to screen and follow up on sleep disorders. We are also committed to training doctors for careers in sleep medicine through our Sleep Medicine Fellowship Program Below are some of the most common sleep issues that we can help you with: excessive daytime sleepiness, which is usually a consequence of too little or very disrupted sleep insomnia, which is characterized by difficulty initiating or maintaining sleep, or both kicking or punching during sleep low oxygen during sleep narcolepsy, a lifelong disorder of the central nervous system that makes it difficult or impossible for a person to maintain any state or stage of sleep or wakefulness , which is often described as brief cessations of breathing throughout sleep poor sleep habits preoperative sleep apnea screening restless legs syndrome (RLS), which is best described as “creepy crawly” sensations in your legs, but can also occur in the arms shift work sleep problems shortness of breath during sleep We offer treatments including medications; nasal CPAP, or continuous positive airway pressure mask that helps manage the symptoms of sleep apnea; biofeedback and relaxation therapy to aid sleep; and sleep restriction strategies designed to condense sleep into sequential nighttime hours. Our experts specialize in the treatment and research of all types of sleep disorders. Nishay Chitkara Ari Klapholz Mandana Mahmoudi MD, PhD, MPH Sleep Medicine Doctor Rodolfo Miranda AR Alcibiades J. Rodriguez Epilepsy Doctor Erich P. Voigt Otolaryngologist Related Centers Comprehensive Epilepsy Center—Sleep Center Our facility has six patient testing rooms and offers the latest technology for diagnosing sleep disorders in children and adults. NYU Langone Medical Associates—Chelsea At our in-house sleep lab, our sleep medicine specialists diagnose and treat a variety of sleep disorders. NYU Langone Pulmonary Critical Care and Internal Medicine Associates Our sleep medicine experts diagnose and treat sleep disorders in adults. Our team of doctors can address a full range of issues including sleep disorders. We have doctors in Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx, and on Long Island. COVID-19 Clinical Trials Our experts are advancing knowledge about all facets of COVID-19 through research. View Current Clinical Trials Experts at NYU Langone’s Post-COVID Care Program provide comprehensive evaluation and treatment for people experiencing long-term symptoms or other lasting health impacts after COVID-19 infection. Many people recover completely from the disease. But some people have persistent COVID-19 symptoms or develop new health problems in the weeks or months after contracting the virus. This can happen even if they had only mild symptoms initially or showed no signs of infection. This condition is sometimes referred to as “long COVID” or “long-haul COVID.” In the medical community it is known as post-acute sequelae of COVID-19, or PASC. Some of the common long-term symptoms people experience after COVID-19 include the following: worsened symptoms after physical or mental activities shortness of breath or difficulty breathing memory or concentration problems chest pains fast or pounding heartbeat , or both dizziness and lightheadedness sleep disturbances loss of smell or taste fever COVID-19 is an infection that can affect different areas of the body, including the lungs, heart, kidneys, brain, and muscles. Because of this, some people may develop other health conditions or serious complications, such as , heart problems, kidney problems, , cognitive and memory issues, or weakness that limits physical activity. Leading Treatment for COVID-19 Because COVID-19 is a new disease, many healthcare providers may not have experience with these persistent or new health conditions as they relate to COVID-19. Since the beginning of the pandemic, NYU Langone doctors have treated large numbers of people with COVID-19. This has allowed us to collect significant volumes of data quickly. This experience, along with our focus on these long-term symptoms, has given our team the skills and experience necessary to understand and address their impact on your health and give you the best possible chance of full recovery. Our Post-COVID Care Program specialists, including primary care doctors, pulmonologists, cardiologists, neurologists, mental health professionals, and physiatrists—doctors who specialize in rehabilitation medicine—collaborate to create a personalized treatment plan for you. We use the most sophisticated diagnostic tools and treatments, including medical and lifestyle options. Our goal is to provide comprehensive and coordinated care that supports your recovery and overall health and wellbeing. At NYU Langone, our experts have been on the front lines of the pandemic, from caring for the first patients to testing COVID-19 vaccines and advising health agencies. Our doctors have gained valuable experience and insights that guide the care we provide. Evaluation for the Post-COVID Care Program We evaluate and treat people ages 18 and older who are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms or related health problems persisting at least 4 weeks after the initial infection. We do not require proof of a COVID-19 diagnosis to make an appointment with our program. Experts in our Post-COVID Care Program evaluate and treat people who meet the following guidelines: are age 18 years or older still have symptoms from a suspected or diagnosed case of COVID-19 at least four weeks after symptom onset We do not require proof of a COVID-19 diagnosis to make an appointment with our program. We recommend all new patients schedule a consultation by calling 212-263-6115. At this first appointment, our nurse practitioner takes your health history and discusses your symptoms with you. Based on this information, we provide you with referrals to the appropriate post-COVID care specialists, who complete a full evaluation to determine the severity and scope of your symptoms and create a treatment plan that aids your recovery. If you have received a post-COVID specialty referral or know which specialist or specific doctor you wish to see, you may For questions about our program, call us at 212-263-6115 If you currently have symptoms of COVID-19 or a new positive test for COVID-19, schedule an appointment with an NYU Langone doctor through our service. Learn more about the COVID-19 vaccine and how to schedule an appointment for a vaccination. If you have post-vaccination concerns, contact your Participate in COVID-19 Research NYU Langone experts have led the field in advancing our understanding of COVID-19 and post-COVID conditions. When you receive care through the Post-COVID Care Program, you may participate in our COVID-19 and enroll in observational research. All of our research efforts aim to improve care and outcomes for people who have had COVID-19. We are actively enrolling adult patients who have long-COVID symptoms in a National Institutes of Health (NIH)–funded Post-COVID Registry . Participants in this study will be asked to provide blood and stool samples at different timepoints, complete health-related questionnaires, and allow the research team to review their COVID-19 history. We are also looking for patients with a history of COVID-19 but no long-COVID symptoms to join our healthy control group. Healthy control group participants will be asked to provide one blood and stool sample and complete one health-related questionnaire. For more information, please contact the research team at: PASCRegistry@NYULangone.org Support for Our Patients with Long COVID Post-COVID Care Program psychologists have developed the Beyond Long COVID: Skill-Building and Wellness Group. The program is designed to provide participants with evidence-based skills to manage symptoms and offer a supportive space to share and process experiences with long COVID and the COVID-19 pandemic. This virtual program consists of 12 weekly 60-minute sessions guided by a psychologist from our team. Each session focuses on a specific topic to allow optimal learning of concepts and skills. Topics include the following: overview of the biology of long COVID strategies for managing sleep and fatigue techniques for navigating brain fog and attention issues coping mechanisms for anxiety and grief, and other mental health topics To learn more about the Beyond Long COVID: Skill-Building and Wellness group, call us at 212-263-6115. Our experts specialize in caring for people experiencing long-term effects of COVID-19. Neil A. Busis Jeffrey S. Fine Suzette A. Garofano Paul L. Glassman Eva Kosta Joann Kwah Katherine Leiber Anli A. Liu Kristen Lo Sicco Hair Loss Dermatologist William Lu PsyD Amrita Mukhopadhyay John S. Munger Elena Nascimbeni Ferran Kinjan Parikh Vinh P. Pham Susan M. Polizzi View All 35 Doctors & 35 Gene Found to Protect Some Men from Severe COVID-19 & Death One Patient, 165 Care Providers & Endless Gratitude A PET/CT scan is a combination of two noninvasive imaging tests: positron emission tomography (PET) and computed tomography (CT). At NYU Langone , our expert radiologists review and interpret PET/CT scans to diagnose illnesses, evaluate a patient’s response to treatment, and check for the recurrence of several medical conditions, including cancer. When you have a PET/CT scan, radiolabeled glucose, a form of glucose labeled with radioactive material, is injected intravenously. Much like a car uses gas to run, the cells of the body need glucose to work effectively. The radiolabeled glucose resembles glucose enough to be taken up by cells, but not enough to be used by them. As a result, cells that need more “gas” accumulate more of the radiolabeled glucose. The PET/CT scanner detects where there is a concentration of radiolabeled glucose in the body, and thus where disease may be. For certain people, contrast materials may be given orally or intravenously during the test as well. Preparing for a PET/CT Scan You must fast for six hours before a PET/CT scan, and you are only able to drink plain water. Even ingesting a small amount of sugar can make the results of the test inaccurate. If you have type 1 or type 2 diabetes, you are given specific instructions from our nurses after you schedule your appointment. In order to have a PET/CT scan with contrast, you must have a blood test to check your creatinine levels within six weeks of your scan. Please bring any previous imaging studies and reports with you if they were performed at another institution. You also need your identification card, insurance card, scan prescription, and related forms. During a PET/CT Scan When you arrive for your appointment, you need to change into a gown if you are wearing any clothing with metal in it. A locker is provided for your clothes and personal items. Please advise a nurse or technologist if there is a chance you may be pregnant. Before the scan, a nurse interviews you to get a detailed medical history, and places an intravenous (IV) line. If oral contrast is prescribed, this is when you drink the first portion. You are escorted into a private room, where you receive an injection of radiolabeled glucose and then rest quietly for approximately 45 to 60 minutes. A few minutes before you go onto the scanner, you drink the second portion of your oral contrast and use the restroom. If IV contrast is used during the CT portion of the study, it is injected while you are on the scanner. Scan lasts approximately 20 to 30 minutes. During the scan, you are visible to and can communicate with the technologist, who is present in the adjacent control room at all times. After a PET/CT Scan At the end of the scan, you are escorted back to the patient area and your IV is removed. You can change and have a snack. If necessary, additional instructions are given to you by the nurses. The results of the scan are interpreted by our nuclear medicine physicians. The report is sent immediately to your referring physician, who contacts you with the results. AI Reconstructs Unique Speech from Brain Signals: How It Works & Where It Could Lead For patients who have lost their ability to speak—due to a stroke, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or other conditions that disconnect the brain’s speech signaling pathways—artificial intelligence and brain–computer interface systems have opened the door to neural speech prostheses. However, few such systems aim to mimic an individual’s unique voice, so that most yield generic speech that can sound robotic. Aided by machine learning algorithms, a research group at NYU Langone Health has developed a unique speech decoder and synthesizer system that produces natural-sounding speech closely matching individuals’ voices. The team’s latest study—one of the largest in its field— tested the approach in 48 patients , showing how the technique can accurately re-create a broad range of speech. Here’s more information about how the system works and how it could lead to far more individualized neural speech prostheses. How does the new vocal reconstruction system work? Speech can be mapped and synthesized from neural electrocorticography (ECoG) signals to a time–frequency representation of speech, or a spectrogram, says neuroscientist Adeen Flinker, PhD . He and colleagues first mapped out a set of 18 speech parameters that represent how the human voice changes in frequency, pitch, and other characteristics over time. A deep neural network can learn and re-create that complex mapping. To capture an individual’s unique speech, the researchers trained a model on a prerecording of each patient’s voice. A technique called an autoencoder was used to constrain the 18 parameters representing that voice. Machine learning equations then helped combine the parameters into a more accurate re-creation of the person’s speech patterns. A comparison of original audio recordings and accompanying spectrograms, collected as individuals speak various words, with the audio and spectrograms generated by the novel speech decoder. Source: NYU Langone Health How do researchers gather the necessary data to decode speech? Researchers have learned to decode speech from the brain signals of patients undergoing evaluation for epilepsy surgery. Electrodes implanted for presurgical evaluation also provide the necessary ECoG recordings for vocal reconstruction. Data from electroencephalography (EEG) electrodes that monitor activity from outside the skull are not sufficient, because the neural signals are distorted after traveling through bone and other tissue. What makes this approach unique? “Instead of generating a generic voice or robotic voice, we first learn the patient’s voice in a machine learning manner,” Dr. Flinker says. That approach yields a more realistic reproduction of the patient’s speech. Additionally, unlike similar studies, which have included only a handful of patients, the team’s study represents the largest cohort to date in which a neural speech decoder for unique speech has been applied, proving that the approach is both reproducible and scalable. “We really wanted to push the envelope and see to what degree we can scale this up,” he says. If the approach pans out, it could lead to clinical trials of brain–computer interface technologies that reproduce an individual’s own voice. In addition, the researchers have shared an open-source neuro-decoding pipeline to bolster collaboration and enable replication of the group’s results. What other new information did the study reveal about speech signaling? Language signals are typically associated with the brain’s left hemisphere, but the researchers used available data from the right hemisphere of 16 patients to produce “robust decoding” for them as well, Dr. Flinker says. “That’s a very exciting finding that hasn’t been shown before, especially not on this scale.” If neural signals from the right hemisphere prove sufficient for decoding speech, he says, it could open up the prosthetic technology to patients with aphasia due to left-hemisphere damage. “The fact that we can decode from the right hemisphere is the first line of evidence that we can perhaps restore and synthesize speech based on intact right hemisphere signals and not the damaged left hemisphere,” Dr. Flinker says. What’s next for this work? The next immediate step, Dr. Flinker says, is to develop approaches that do not require a prerecording of a patient’s voice, while also expanding the system’s vocabulary to include more words and sentences. The team will then need to assess the efficacy of the technology on clinical trial participants with implanted electrodes who are unable to speak. Another significant challenge lies in designing a clinical trial for patients with aphasia to determine how effectively the technology functions when the left hemisphere is compromised. Adeen Flinker, PhD, is an associate professor of neurology. His research focuses on speech, electrocorticography, and signal processing. Niche Role for Temporary VADs in Bypass Surgery Elias A. Zias, MD The ventricular assist device (VAD), initially used as a rescue therapy for adults with cardiogenic shock, is now proving to be useful as an adjunct to coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in a subset of patients with advanced heart failure. Cardiothoracic surgeon , pioneered an innovative technique that utilizes the device in patients with advanced-stage heart failure currently considered ineligible for traditional bypass surgery. The method uses a temporary VAD to aid recovery and improve outcomes following CABG, lowering the risk of bypass surgery for patients who, otherwise, have limited treatment options aside from transplant. “This procedure has the potential to transform the lives of patients with advanced heart failure.” “This procedure has the potential to transform the lives of patients with advanced heart failure by delaying the need for a heart transplant or by offering a path to recovery with bypass surgery,” says Dr. Zias. VAD for Temporary Support In general, patients with heart failure and an ejection fraction at or below 35 percent are at high risk for death or complications with bypass surgery, Dr. Zias says. Research suggests that reduced ejection fraction more than doubles the risk of early mortality after CABG. This paradigm has started to shift, however, with the availability of temporary VADs, he notes. While early versions of these devices were bulky and cumbersome to remove, modern versions can be taken out directly at the bedside with no additional anesthesia or surgery. After coronary bypass surgery, the device is placed centrally into the aorta to temporarily assume the pumping function of the heart, allowing it to rest, Dr. Zias explains. Within a matter of days, the device is taken out, and patients tend to recover quickly thereafter. A Viable Option for Complex Cases Recently, Dr. Zias and the team had a case that was uniquely complex involving a 62-year-old male patient who presented with an acute pulmonary embolism. He also had heart failure with a reduced ejection fraction of 30 percent, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. “After treating the pulmonary embolism, we knew he would require CABG surgery,” Dr. Zias says. “Given his reduced ejection fraction and comorbidities, the surgical risk was higher than average. We recommended placement of a temporary VAD.” After completing the bypass surgery, Dr. Zias inserted the temporary VAD without any complications. Within a day after the procedure, the patient was strong enough to stand and walk. At 10 days postop, the device was removed during a bedside procedure, and the patient returned home shortly after. “Having done over 100 of these procedures, we have conducted more than any other institution across the country.” “The device alleviates the burden on the heart as it heals, while simultaneously allowing a patient to stand and move around sooner. Together, that makes a huge difference in their overall recovery,” Dr. Zias explains. Being Proactive, Not Reactive When considering CABG in the setting of advanced heart failure, Dr. Zias recommends that patients be referred as early as possible to ensure optimal short-term and long-term outcomes, emphasizing that the cardiac surgeons at NYU Langone are uniquely positioned to perform this procedure. “Having done over 100 of these procedures, we have conducted more than any other institution across the country,” Dr. Zias says. “Due to our success, the device manufacturer is now launching a trial in this cohort of patients.” Cardiac Surgery, Thoracic Surgery Elias A. Zias, MD, is a clinical professor of cardiothoracic surgery and director of the Coronary Artery Bypass Program. He also serves as director of quality assurance for adult cardiac surgery at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion. Novel Strategy Stabilizes Newborn’s Cardiomyopathy Prior to Heart Transplant Insights from First Heart Xenotransplantations in Recent Decedents Deane E. Smith, MD; Syed T. Hussain, MD; and Nader Moazami, MD Advances in genetic engineering and immunosuppression have raised hopes that genetically modified pigs might help solve the chronic shortage of transplant organs for human patients. Although xenotransplantation of hearts from such animals has shown encouraging results in nonhuman primates, it has been attempted only twice in a living person—in January 2022 and September 2023, when patients at the University of Maryland received pig hearts under the FDA’s “compassionate use” provision. The first patient survived for 60 days before the organ failed; the second patient was still being monitored at the time of publication. NYU Langone Health researchers are pioneering in this emerging field of innovation by taking a different approach: being the first to transplant gene-edited pig hearts into recently deceased humans. Led by , chief of the Division of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support, they recently reported findings in a study published in Nature Medicine . The transplant recipients were a man and a woman, both of whom had consented to full-body donation. Heart function was monitored for three days. Here, Dr. Moazami discusses the study’s methodology and findings, and its implications for the future of cardiac xenotransplantation. Pioneering the Decedent Model Dr. Moazami, why did you decide to use decedent recipients in this study? Dr. Moazami: The big question in xenotransplantation is whether the lessons we’ve learned from pig-to-primate transplants can be applied to humans. Our goal was to investigate that question without jeopardizing a recipient’s life. My colleague Dr. Robert Montgomery , has pioneered the decedent model in pig-to-human kidney xenotransplantation , with great success. We thought it would be useful to take a similar approach with the heart. “We’ve never been as close to making xenotransplantation a reality as we are now.” Based on discussions with Dr. Montgomery, we set out to determine three things: Is the pig heart robust enough to maintain blood flow in the human? What happens to this heart immunologically? And are any viruses transmitted from the pig to the human? With a deceased recipient, we could investigate those issues in much more detail than with a living patient—for example, by doing frequent biopsies and multiple daily blood draws. Navigating Complex Logistics How did you carry out the experiments? Several months of planning were required. We needed to work out what kind of consent we were going to use and how we would approach the families. We needed to have an OR available, which would then become an ICU, for a three-day period. We needed to train our surgical team in the unique challenges of xenotransplantation. We had to rehearse the procurement protocol, which included transporting the donor heart from a special pig-breeding facility in Virginia. We used animals grown under sterile conditions with 10 genetic modifications—4 genes knocked out to eliminate immunogenic sugars and keep the heart from growing too large, and 6 human genes inserted to improve immunocompatibility. We also used an extremely sensitive screen for porcine viruses to reduce the risk that latent viruses might be present in the donor heart. Once appropriate recipients became available—decedents with organs that were ineligible for donation but whose physiology could withstand the rigors of transplant surgery—we performed the implantations just as we would with a human heart. Afterward, both recipients were monitored 24 hours a day by a team of intensivist physicians and nurses, as well as by the research team. Encouraging—and Instructive—Results Tell us about the results. Were there any surprises? Overall, the results were very positive. There was no sign of rejection or inflammation. The hearts kept pumping without the need for mechanical support. And we detected no porcine viruses in the hearts or in the recipients. However, there were differences in outcome between the two xenotransplants. In the first case, there was a significant size mismatch between the donor heart and the recipient, who had previously had cardiomyopathy. The recipient needed high doses of vasopressors and inotropes, and, by the third day, we saw a deterioration of cardiac output. In the second case, where the size match was good, none of those problems occurred. “For pig-to-human cardiac transplants to become clinically feasible, we’ll need a better way to match a potential donor pig with a prospective recipient’s anatomy.” One takeaway is that for pig-to-human cardiac transplants to become clinically feasible, we’ll need a better way to match a potential donor pig with a prospective recipient’s anatomy. Our team has launched another study in which we’re monitoring the growth of the heart at different stages of the animal’s lifetime to get a better understanding of the relationship between heart size and body weight. What else does this study tell us about the future of cardiac xenotransplantation? A lot of work needs to be done before we can determine whether this approach can solve the organ shortage. But the time has come for us to do that work. We’ve never been as close to making xenotransplantation a reality as we are now. Research support and funding for this study was provided by Lung Biotechnology, a wholly owned subsidiary of the United Therapeutics Corporation. Cardiac Surgery, Transplant Surgery Nader Moazami, MD, is a professor of cardiothoracic surgery and chief of the Division of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support. His research interests center on improving surgical procedures, such as transplants and circulatory support pumps, for patients with end-stage heart failure. Sequential Triple Therapy Boosts Outcomes in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Dual combination therapies are the standard of care for low- and intermediate-risk pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). However, the long-term impact of add-on sequential triple combination therapy for patients with intermediate- or high-risk disease has remained largely unknown. In a retrospective analysis of 55 patients with PAH on dual combination therapy but not at therapeutic goal, a team of researchers from NYU Langone Health found that the sequential addition of a third therapeutic agent to the regimen yielded significant improvements in function, risk status, and survival. The study was recently reported in Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory Disease “We confirmed a lasting clinical and survival benefit with add-on sequential therapy in a racially diverse population.” “We confirmed a lasting clinical and survival benefit with add-on sequential therapy in a racially diverse population,” says lead author , an associate professor of medicine and director of the Pulmonary Hypertension Program Assessing Need for Escalating Therapy According to Dr. Sulica, current guidelines recommend adding a third drug sequentially in patients with intermediate-low risk PAH at follow-up. For intermediate-high or high-risk disease, parenteral prostacyclin or referrals for a transplant are recommended options. “Some studies have included patients on dual combination therapy who received a sequential third investigational drug,” Dr. Sulica says. However, until now, no existing study had explored the long-term effects of sequential triple combination therapy in intermediate- or high-risk disease at follow-up, she explains. Moreover, Dr. Sulica emphasizes the need to identify independent predictors of risk reduction with triple-therapy regimens. “While most trials have not included risk reduction as an end point, it could be a useful target to shift the paradigm to a goal-oriented approach,” Dr. Sulica says. Risk Reduction with Triple Therapy For the study, the researchers followed patients with PAH seen at the Pulmonary Hypertension Center from January 2017 to July 2021. Participants were maintained on a stable dual-therapy combination regimen, then followed up after starting a third add-on drug sequentially. Of the 102 patients who started on the triple regimen, 55 were included in the final analysis. About a third of them were classified as high risk. After 68 weeks of follow-up, the researchers saw a significant improvement in functional, hemodynamic, and echocardiographic parameters. In addition, those patients who achieved or maintained low-risk status had significantly improved survival. The analysis found that being female was strongly associated with successful risk reduction. In contrast, Hispanic ethnicity, right atrial pressure, and pericardial effusion were associated with lower odds of risk reduction. “Our findings are hypothesis-generating,” Dr. Sulica explains. “Overall, these data support considering risk reduction as an end point in future trials.” Impact of Diversity on Outcomes Dr. Sulica acknowledges that more research is needed to assess the true impact of race and ethnicity on patient outcomes. “In our cohort, Hispanic patients had lower odds of risk reduction,” she says. “These results need to be confirmed in larger studies.” If the research bears out, she adds, further studies could help identify the optimal triple combination regimen for PAH based on its various etiologies. Dr. Sulica serves as advisor for Bayer, Janssen, Liquidia, Merck, and United Therapeutics. She serves as a researcher for Bayer, Bellerophon Therapeutics, Merck, and United Therapeutics. Roxana Sulica, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of the Pulmonary Hypertension Program. She specializes in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Latest in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Tumor-Adjacent Tissue Predicts Lung Cancer Recurrence Study shows inflammatory gene signature in tumor-adjacent lung tissue is the strongest clinical predictor of cancer progression. Relentless Pursuit of World-Class Care for 9/11 Responders & Survivors NYU Langone’s efforts to address the health effects of the World Trade Center disaster stand as a model for other programs. Taking Robotic Thoracic Surgery to the Next Level Single-port tech offers an improved surgical experience for both patients and surgeons. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO-HNSF 2024 Annual Meeting Miami Beach, FL. Source: Getty Images NYU Langone Health’s experts in otolaryngology—head and neck surgery are joining colleagues from around the world at the AAO-HNSF 2024 annual meeting in Miami Beach. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Saturday, September 28 Panel Steroids and the Voice: The Science and Art of Dosing and Tapering Regimen NYU Langone Panelists: Milan R. Amin MD Ryan C. Branski PhD Aaron M. Johnson PhD 2:30–3:30PM MBCC, 224 The Effect of Anxiety on Hypoglossal Nerve Stimulation Adherence and Amplitude Settings Courtney Chou 4:06–4:12PM MBCC, 238–239 Sunday, September 29 Surgical Excision for Vocal Scar: Assessing Patient Outcomes Naomi B. Tesema, BS, Taylor Lackey, MD, Stratos Achlatis, MD, 10:24–10:30AM Monday, September 30 Diagnostic Test Selection in Chronic Cough and Dysphagia 4:00–5:00PM MBCC, 210 Stump the Experts: Laryngology/Broncho-Esophagology 11:00 AM–12:00PM MBCC, 231 Debate Great Debate Series: CI Related Topics J. Thomas Roland Jr., MD MBCC, Art Deco 228AB Incomplete Facial Palsy: Challenging Cases in Facial Reanimation Danielle Eytan, MD MBCC, 232 Poster Presentation Metabolomic Profiling of Nodal Metastasis in HPV-Negative Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma NYU Langone Authors: Chareeni E. Kurukulasuriya, 12:00–1:00PM N/A (poster presentation) Identifying Patient Characteristics and Neuromodulator Treatment Patterns in Adults with Refractory or Unexplained Chronic Cough NYU Langone Presenting Author: Yaerin Song Taylor Lackey, MD, Journey to a Treatment for Zoster Eye Disease An HZO expert's personal experience culminates in a major clinical trial. The aims and endpoints of the Zoster Eye Disease Study (ZEDS) include evaluating whether suppressive valacyclovir treatment delays time to first occurrence of new or worsening of specific forms of eye disease and reduces the incidence, severity, and duration of postherpetic neuralgia. ZEDS researchers are also evaluating the impact of vaccination with the recombinant zoster vaccine on study outcomes and whether vaccination against herpes zoster affects COVID-19 diagnosis and severity. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health; Zoster Eye Disease Study As of December 31, 2021, ZEDS had 75 enrolling participating clinical centers across 28 states, Canada, and New Zealand; 540 screened study participants (study visit 1); and 433 enrolled study participants (study visit 2), with 300 having completed 12 months and 239 having completed 18 months of study. The researchers’ goal is to have 780 participants. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health; Zoster Eye Disease Study Of randomized ZEDS participants, 53 percent are female, 86 percent are White, 5 percent are Asian, 4 percent are Black, 4 percent are Hispanic/Latino, 78 percent had no zoster vaccination before enrollment, and 12 percent had a baseline eGFR of 45 to 59 with the remainder having 60 or above. The median age at randomization was 61, and patients have been evenly distributed among 4 strata according to age at onset of disease and duration of HZO at time of enrollment. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health; Zoster Eye Disease Study Current standard treatment for herpes zoster ophthalmicus (HZO) , or shingles of the eye, involves short-term use of a high oral dose of an antiviral valacyclovir, acyclovir, or famciclovir. An unresolved question has been whether longer-term valacyclovir treatment can improve outcomes in HZO and should become standard of care. In 2016, , a professor of ophthalmology, and her team were awarded a $15 million grant from the National Eye Institute of the National Institutes of Health to explore long-term use of valacyclovir. The resulting 75-center Zoster Eye Disease Study (ZEDS) is currently ongoing. “Our goal is to reduce recurrant and chronic eye disease and chronic pain due to HZO.” “We already know that long-term suppressive treatment has greatly improved outcomes for herpes simplex eye disease, which shares key similarities to herpes zoster eye disease,” says Dr. Cohen. “Our goal is to reduce recurrent and chronic eye disease and chronic pain due to HZO.” A Vision for Treatment Born from Experience A cornea specialist, Dr. Cohen suffered from herpes zoster eye disease in 2008. She lost depth perception and had to give up her practice. Always interested in eye infections, she refocused her research toward finding a better treatment for HZO. Dr. Cohen has been a tireless advocate in her efforts to promote the herpes zoster vaccine. “We now have the recombinant zoster vaccine that is over 90 percent effective,” she says. “It is my ambition that we get as many people as possible age 50 and older and immunocompromised adults protected from this common, debilitating disease that is vision- and life-threatening.” Sustaining ZEDS Research through COVID-19 While the pandemic derailed many clinical trials requiring participant visits, ZEDS notably maintained its momentum. Dr. Cohen and the  ZEDS research team outlined their successful strategy to retain participants and quickly resume enrollment in Contemporary Clinical Trials Communications . The team also outlined the study design and enrollment progress in a recent issue of Cornea “Through the unwavering commitment of researchers here at NYU Langone and at the participating clinical centers, we have been able to sustain our enrollment,” Dr. Cohen notes. “We hope our work can provide insights into the planning of future trials in addition to improving outcomes in HZO.” Dr. Cohen and the research team encourage all doctors to refer patients with HZO to a study site near them for evaluation, or to contact the NYU Grossman School of Medicine by phone at 844-NYU-ZEDS or by email at ZEDS.CTA@nyulangone.org , our cardiologists understand that each cardiac condition requires a specialized approach to treatment. This is why we have established several condition-focused cardiac programs to ensure you receive personalized, high-quality care. , experts diagnose and create treatment plans for patients living with a heart condition that was present at birth, emphasizing lifelong health. In our , doctors use the latest diagnostic tools to provide an accurate diagnosis and create treatment plans to manage this serious heart condition, in which protein buildup causes thickening of the heart walls. Experts at our provide cardiovascular care to patients who have cancer or are cancer survivors. Specialists at our base their treatment on the latest clinical trial data to manage a full array of blood-clotting disorders. In addition, cardiologists at our manage aneurysm and aortic dissection using minimally invasive approaches and open surgery. World renowned experts at our provide care to patients with this condition, in which the heart’s left ventricle wall becomes stiff, limiting the ability to pump blood. We encourage you to reach out to our providers at the specialized program that best addresses your medical needs. Care for Neurosarcoidosis Neurologists at NYU Langone’s Sarcoidosis Program have experience in diagnosing and treating neurosarcoidosis. This inflammatory condition affects about 5 to 10 percent of people with . Neurologic symptoms of neurosarcoidosis may appear before other sarcoidosis symptoms, or they may be the only sign of sarcoidosis. Symptoms vary depending on the part of the nervous system affected. When neurosarcoidosis affects the optic nerve, for example, patients may experience worsening vision in the affected eye and pain when it moves. Someone whose neurosarcoidosis affects the spinal cord may experience weakness, abnormal sensation, or difficulty emptying the bladder. When neurosarcoidosis affects the brain, it can lead to symptoms that may include seizures, vision problems, or difficulty with thinking and memory. Neurosarcoidosis is rare, affecting an estimated 1 in 100,000 people in the United States. To make a diagnosis of neurosarcoidosis, the neurologist takes a detailed neurologic history and conducts a comprehensive neurologic examination. Testing for neurosarcoidosis may include MRI of the brain and spinal cord and lumbar puncture, as well as blood tests to exclude alternative diagnoses. Our neurologists work with you and your other sarcoidosis specialists to develop a personalized treatment plan. A number of medications have been found to be helpful in preventing neurologic symptoms from getting worse or even improving symptoms. Our neurologists can accommodate appointments for patients who need to be seen urgently. If you’re unable to find an appointment with one of our providers using online scheduling, please call us at Taking Robotic Thoracic Surgery to the Next Level Robert J. Cerfolio, MD The robotics work at NYU Langone Health is building on its proven track record of success. Recently, , a clinical professor of cardiothoracic surgery and director of robotic thoracic surgery , and his team were among the first to perform a lobectomy using a single-port robot. “The earliest anecdotal evidence is compelling, with some patients foregoing pain medication and being discharged ahead of schedule,” Dr. Zervos says. “Through years of practice, our division has been a pioneer in developing and advancing minimally invasive robotic surgery.” While the new single-port platform is currently being used in a clinical trial setting, Dr. Zervos is optimistic about the future of the technology, citing the strong potential for broad use across various thoracic surgery procedures. Leaders in the Robotic Arena While most thoracic procedures are still performed in a conventional multiport manner, single-port robotic-assisted surgery offers an exciting new premise for innovation in the field. “Through years of practice, our division has been a pioneer in developing and advancing minimally invasive robotic surgery,” Dr. Zervos says. For over a decade, he and thoracic surgeon , chief of clinical thoracic surgery, have been dedicated to propelling robotic surgical technology forward and training surgeons worldwide, positioning themselves as global leaders in the robotic arena. “Patients travel from around the globe to have us perform their lung resection.” “We are known all over the world as innovators in surgical techniques, and this extends to postoperative care,” Dr. Cerfolio says. “We are dedicated to our patients, making availability a priority, and patients travel from around the globe to have us perform their lung resection.” Wins for Patient and Surgeon Over the past several years, robotic systems for thoracic surgery have evolved rapidly. The newest single-port platforms have many unique advantages over multiport platforms, such as the ability to perform surgery using a single, minimalized incision and to apply a subcostal entry that avoids invasion of the chest cavity. With these advantages, the procedure leaves little to no scarring and reduces pain, a major benefit compared to other minimally invasive techniques. “With standard multiport platforms, patients will experience some degree of pain and potentially chronic intercostal neuralgia,” Dr. Zervos says. “With the single-port robot, patients report minimal to no pain after the procedure.” For the Love of Teaching While attitudes have begun to change, few programs have fully integrated robotics training into their residency and fellowship curricula. Common barriers include cost and lack of faculty expertise, as well as other factors. “For many programs, there is a huge gap in implementing education for new technologies like robotic surgery,” Dr. Zervos explains. To start to close this knowledge gap, Dr. Zervos and Dr. Cerfolio have led the design of unique case observation and training programs, open to both trainees and surgeons from within the United States and around the globe. They hope the programs can surmount some of the barriers to implementing robotics training in thoracic surgery. Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, MBA, is a professor of cardiothoracic surgery, chief of clinical thoracic surgery, and senior consultant for the Robotic Surgery Center. He specializes in the treatment of lung and esophageal cancers. Michael Zervos, MD, is a clinical professor of cardiothoracic surgery, chief of clinical thoracic surgery, and director of robotic thoracic surgery at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion. He specializes in the treatment of complicated airway, breathing, and lung conditions using minimally invasive approaches. Relentless Pursuit of World-Class Care for 9/11 Responders & Survivors More than two decades after the attack on the World Trade Center (WTC) on September 11, 2001, many first responders and survivors continue to experience health impacts from their exposure to toxic conditions. From the beginning, NYU Langone Health, in collaboration with NYC Health + Hospitals, has been an integral player in the care and surveillance of these patients In 2010, following the establishment of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, NYU Langone began providing care as part of the CDC’s WTC Health Program. This encompasses the WTC Health Program Clinical Center of Excellence at NYU Langone for responders, directed by Denise J. Harrison, MD WTC Environmental Health Center at NYC Health + Hospitals for survivors, directed by Joan Reibman, MD Both Dr. Harrison and Dr. Reibman were caring for patients when the attacks occurred. “The community has always been the key driver of our agenda.” “Right away we started seeing patients in the clinics and developing specialized treatment for responders, survivors, and residents,” Dr. Harrison says. Care for Responders Shortly following the WTC disaster, Dr. Harrison received funding from the Robin Hood Foundation to travel to affected communities to screen and refer day laborers who played a vital part in the recovery effort but would otherwise not have access to care. “The community has always been the key driver of our agenda,” Dr. Harrison says. She emphasizes that the leadership within NYU Langone’s WTC Health Program meets regularly with community organizations and union members who share in the decision-making involving research and patient care. As a result, what began as a screening program for responders now provides comprehensive services for health monitoring mental health pharmacy benefits counseling . If a responder is approved, the program pays for all their medical expenses. Treating Community Survivors While NYU Langone’s WTC Health Program treats a broad range of responders, from firefighters to healthcare personnel to iron workers, the WTC Environmental Health Center assesses and treats WTC-related physical and mental health conditions of survivors— eligible residents, students, workers, or passersby in the area on 9/11. In 2005, Dr. Reibman and colleagues published an epidemiologic survey of over 2,300 individuals who lived and worked in the WTC geographic area on or after 9/11. The study showed that a significant number had developed respiratory issues By 2008, the WTC Environmental Health Center had received federal funding to provide treatment for these survivors. “Our goal is to provide care for all those with conditions resulting from dust and fume exposures, but also to provide surveillance of new conditions.” Notably, Dr. Reibman says, the WTC Environmental Health Center was included as the only Center of Excellence for survivors under the CDC’s WTC Health Program and serves as a model for subsequent survivor programs. To date, there are over 14,000 survivors enrolled in the WTC Environmental Health Center. “These patients continue to inform us about WTC-related illnesses,” Dr. Reibman says. In 2022, her team detailed how WTC-related airway injury impacts chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Cancer Characteristics Much of these surveillance efforts are directed at cancers. Where a majority of responders seeking treatment have been men, and Dr. Harrison’s research has focused on these patients , the survivor group comprises about 50 percent women. “Surprisingly, many of these women have had breast cancer rather than lung cancer,” Dr. Reibman notes. The survivor cohort is diverse ethnically and socioeconomically, and about 50 percent had acute exposure (to the dust clouds) and others had chronic exposure (lived or worked in the area). “This focus on the community exposed to the WTC disaster is important because it allows us to study environmental exposures and look at the characteristics of cancers ,” Dr. Reibman says. “We aim to understand the commonalities and differences among the cancers, and to use the unique longitudinal data to better understand environmental exposures and cancer in general.” This effort has led to the establishment of a pan-cancer database . “We’re looking to collaborate with other researchers studying cancers: we have groups focused on , melanoma, and . We also hope to recruit people who were children or youth on 9/11 to study how they’ve been impacted,” Dr. Reibman says. The federal WTC Health Program is still accepting both responder and survivor enrollees. “For anyone who had exposure but never sought treatment or has more recently developed health issues, it’s not too late to enroll in the program,” Dr. Harrison says. “We advocate for everyone coming in.” Pulmonology, Occupational and Environmental Medicine Denise J. Harrison, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and medical director of the World Trade Center Health Program Clinical Center of Excellence at NYU Langone Health. Her research focuses on the ongoing physical and mental health conditions of responders to the World Trade Center attacks. Joan Reibman, MD, is a professor of medicine, affiliated faculty in the Division of Environmental Medicine, and medical director of the World Trade Center Environmental Health Center, a Clinical Center of Excellence that is part of the federal World Trade Center Health Program. Her research focuses on expanding the molecular, environmental, and clinical understanding of urban asthma and cancers. Tumor-Adjacent Tissue Predicts Lung Cancer Recurrence Analysis of RNA collected from healthy tissue adjacent to tumor cells holds significant prognostic information for lung cancer recurrence. ADAPTED FROM: Nature Commun . 2023 Nov 8;14(1):6764. The risk of disease progression for patients with early-stage lung adenocarcinoma is currently about 30 percent after surgical resection. Transcriptomic information collected from tumor-adjacent normal (TAN) lung samples may be a better predictor of whether cancer will recur after treatment than analysis of the tumors themselves, according to new research led by investigators at NYU Langone Health and Analysis of RNA collected from healthy TAN tissue accurately predicted that cancer would recur 83 percent of the time, while RNA from tumors was only informative 62 percent of the time. The TAN samples were also better able to stratify patients into high- and low-risk groups. , the investigation is the largest to date to compare genetic material from tumors and adjacent tissue for their ability to predict recurrence. “Our findings suggest that the pattern of gene expression in apparently healthy tissue might serve as an effective and until now elusive biomarker to help predict lung cancer recurrence in the earliest stages of the disease.” Igor Dolgalev, PhD “Our findings suggest that the pattern of gene expression in apparently healthy tissue might serve as an effective and until now elusive biomarker to help predict lung cancer recurrence in the earliest stages of the disease,” said study co-lead author For the study, the research team collected matched tumor and TAN lung samples from 143 patients with treatment-naïve stage I lung adenocarcinoma who underwent surgical resection. The samples were obtained from NYU Langone’s biorepository of prospectively collected samples. Machine learning models were developed to predict recurrence by identifying genes differentially expressed in patients with cancer progression versus those with no progression within five years of surgery. A multi-modal association map refined patient classification. Analysis revealed that the expression of genes associated with inflammation in TAN lung tissue was especially useful for making predictions. This defensive response, the study authors say, may be an early warning sign of disease. “Immunotherapy might help combat tumor growth before it becomes visible to traditional methods of detection.” Aristotelis Tsirigos, PhD “Immunotherapy, which bolsters the body’s immune defenses, might therefore help combat tumor growth before it becomes visible to traditional methods of detection,” said study co-senior author , director of bioinformatics research. The study team, including bioinformatician Hua Zhou, PhD, plan to use the program to prospectively assess recurrence risk in patients newly treated for early-stage lung cancer. Cancer Biology Igor Dolgalev, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine and director of the Cellular Analytics Laboratory. His research focuses on genetic profiling of cancers, identification of mutations, and the efficacy of checkpoint inhibitors. Cancer Genomics Aristotelis Tsirigos, PhD, is a professor of medicine and pathology, co-director of the Division of Precision Medicine, and director of the Applied Bioinformatics Laboratories. His research focuses on cancer genomics and epigenomics: designing computational methods and pipelines, analyzing data and interpreting the results in different biological contexts. 324 East 23rd Street New York, NY 10010 646-754-1489 NYU Langone’s Osteoporosis and Bone Health Program is dedicated to increasing the quality of life of people suffering from or at risk for developing Our program specialists are dedicated to preventing bone fragility fractures related to osteoporosis by working together to provide you with the best possible care. We collaborate with orthopedic surgeons, nurse practitioners, and physical therapists to offer you complete support during diagnosis, initial treatment, and beyond. Diagnostic Expertise Osteoporosis is a disease that gradually weakens bones and increases the risk of fracture. It affects up to 28 million people in the United States, making it as common as . Women who have reached are at the greatest risk of developing the condition. A fragility fracture is often the first sign of the condition. When you first meet with us, we give you a comprehensive evaluation that may include simple, noninvasive diagnostic tests that measure your level of bone loss. We also perform mineral density testing to measure the strength of your bones. A Personalized Care Plan Our postfracture bone health program is a crucial step toward ensuring optimal recovery and preventing future fractures. After a bone fracture, the affected area is often weakened and more susceptible to additional injuries. Our team works with you to strengthen the bones through dietary adjustments, physical therapy, and , if needed. We encourage adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D to support bone regeneration and density. Physical therapy plays an important role in restoring mobility, improving balance, and increasing muscle strength, which together reduce the risk of more falls and fractures. We also help improve patient care after a fracture by providing information on the following: nutrition, physical activity, and repeat bone mineral density testing medication and other treatment options your specific risk factors and treatment recommendations This program also addresses underlying causes of the initial fracture, including repetitive movements. By identifying and managing these causes, we help to reduce long-term health risks. Ongoing Follow-Up Care Through regular monitoring and follow-up appointments, our providers monitor your bone health and promptly adjust your treatment plan. This approach not only helps the immediate healing process but also promotes long-term bone health, enhancing the overall quality of life for people who have experienced fractures. Our providers can develop a treatment plan to manage your osteoporosis and bone health. NL Nicole Leung 646-754-9631 Tracheal & Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program Surgical Services Specialists in NYU Langone’s Tracheal and Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program offer advanced surgical procedures to manage tracheal and bronchial disorders. Our doctors can discuss whether surgery is the right option for you. Our surgeons are among the most experienced in the world at using to manage tracheal and bronchial tumors, including carcinoids, tracheobronchomalacia (TBM), tracheal stenosis, and tracheoesophageal fistula. NYU Langone is one of the few medical institutions in the Northeast to offer a minimally invasive surgical approach for these conditions, helping to decrease the patient’s length of stay in the hospital and allowing for a faster, less-painful recovery than conventional open surgery. Tracheal Surgery For tracheal surgery, our doctors consider whether a traditional open procedure or minimally invasive robotic-assisted surgery is the best approach for you. Open surgery may include making incisions in the neck, also known as transcervical surgery, or an incision in the chest, which is called a sternotomy. Depending on the location of the tracheal condition, either one of these approaches might be used or combined. If the underlying problem is in the chest, our doctors are likely to use robotic-assisted surgery. Our thoracic surgeons and head and neck surgeons work together to provide the most appropriate surgical approach to manage tracheal conditions. The surgery for TBM includes sewing a mesh to the back side of the airway to strengthen and remodel its size and shape, preventing collapse. Our surgeons may remove and reconstruct portions of the trachea to manage tracheal stenosis. For a tracheal sleeve procedure, surgeons make incisions to remove the narrowed portion of the trachea and then reattach the healthy upper and lower parts of the trachea to restore airflow. Tracheoplasty is a procedure to manage longer sections of narrowed airway. Our surgeons divide and make incisions in two sections of the narrowed portion of the airway. The surgeons slide one section into the other, creating a shorter but wider trachea. Tracheoesophageal fistula may be managed with surgery to close an abnormal opening between the trachea and the esophagus. Surgery may also be a treatment option for tracheal tumors. Doctors remove the tumor and a small border of surrounding tissue and then connect the healthy ends of the trachea to each other. Our team has published articles on techniques to repair or replace damaged tracheal tissue. Bronchial Surgery Our thoracic surgeons may perform a bronchial sleeve resection and reconstruction to remove bronchial tumors. Surgeons make incisions in the bronchus, also known as a bronchial tube, to remove the tumor, along with some surrounding tissue. They then reconnect the healthy parts of the bronchus to each other. Our surgeons may use minimally invasive robotic-assisted surgery to manage bronchial tumors, an approach rarely offered at other institutions, where open approaches are the norm. Robotic-assisted surgery allows for faster recovery, less pain, and an earlier return home than after an open bronchial surgery, improving patients’ quality of life. Dr. Steven Hodak on New Paradigms in the Diagnosis & Treatment of Thyroid Nodules Steven Hodak, MD sat down with , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM to discuss the new wave of treatments and approaches available for thyroid-related conditions. Sirius XM subscribers can hear the full conversation —the interview extract below has been edited for length and clarity. How are we moving in a minimally invasive direction? What does it mean? Dr. Hodak: We’re really on the precipice of another huge paradigm shift in the way we can take care of thyroid patients. There’s an increasing recognition that minimally invasive treatments can be used for treating thyroid nodules that are unsightly, that cause a cosmetic bulge in the neck, or cause obstructive or compressive symptoms, or that may even be overactive nodules that are producing thyroid hormone and making the patient hyperthyroid. We now have minimally invasive methods that are done on an outpatient basis in 30 minutes to an hour. In many cases, the patients are awake. They go home the same day, and we’re able to treat that nodule and give the patient a good cosmetic result. Size reduction, normalized thyroid function without ever leaving a scar, and most importantly, preserving normal thyroid function, which is not the case for surgery in up to about half of patients who have had half of their thyroid removed. What about different techniques when you do decide to remove them? You were an early adopter of radiofrequency ablation. I went to Korea to learn how to do the procedure. It’s been done in Korea for probably 15 years, and I learned from one of the world masters. “I went to Korea to learn how to do [radiofrequency ablation] … I learned from one of the world masters.” It uses heat to destroy the tissue, the needle that we use has about the caliber of a piece of spaghetti. It’s about seven inches long. There’s a handle on it, and there’s an active tip of variable size. And that active tip generates very high-frequency energy. What that does is it creates very precisely delivered heat that we can then move around through a nodule under continuous ultrasound guidance, and we can destroy the nodule. It’s effective, it’s done in the office—30 to 60 minutes—depending on the size of the nodule. It does not remove the nodule, which is one of the benefits of surgery. If we know the nodule is benign and what we’re trying to do is give the patient a good cosmetic outcome, and spare their thyroid function, or alleviate symptoms and spare their thyroid function, it’s a terrific procedure. We’re dancing around different demarcations of thyroid cancer. What about the different kinds of thyroid cancer and how we approach them differently? These days, when we’re finding small thyroid cancers in the thyroid gland, and where we know they have not spread locally, one of the treatments that we can discuss is a minimally invasive procedure like radiofrequency ablation. It’s really pretty amazing. I’ve treated some of these small tumors in over 12 to 18 months. After follow-up, the cancer will literally disappear. There won’t be any visible cancer left. The first case I ever did, years ago at NYU Langone, was a lovely lady who had a variety of complications, but she had what was considered an inoperable papillary thyroid cancer that was growing in size. She had vocal cord paralysis. She had had a lung transplant. The surgeons didn’t want to touch her because they knew if they traumatized her vocal cord nerves, she’d wind up with a permanent tracheostomy, a breathing tube. These treatments are fabulously empowering, and we’re really happy we can offer them.” I agreed to do that case with a minimally invasive method. We were able to completely destroy her cancer, which allowed her to be listed for a kidney transplant that she desperately needed. These treatments are fabulously empowering, and we’re really happy we can offer them. [ Read more about Dr. Hodak’s experience with radiofrequency ablation here. How do you approach goiters? The tried-and-true treatment is surgery, but there are some newer treatments that are very exciting that are reducing the need for surgery. We’re one of very few centers in the United States that does thyroid artery embolization. It’s something that Howard Rinna , who, you know, is the chief of interventional neurosurgery, and I started doing about a year ago. Howard does this procedure, he’s been doing it for other neurological tumors for many years. It involves taking a thin catheter that’s passed through an artery, typically through a puncture in the groin, just like how an angiogram is done, or any of these other catheter-based procedures. Howard will snake that catheter right up and into the arteries that feed the thyroid, or, in the case of a nodule, feed the nodule itself. Then he instills microscopic embolization beads into the artery. Those beads are carried along with the blood flow, and they eventually lodge when they get to the very tiny vessels, the capillaries, and then the artery starts to backfill with beads, and all of the branch feeders start to get occluded as well. By doing this, he’s able to stop the blood supply to the thyroid, to a lobe, to the nodule that needs to be treated in this patient procedure that is done as an outpatient, where hospitalization is usually not needed. He’s able to destroy large parts of the thyroid very selectively and reduce these enormous goiters. The really exciting opportunities are for the patients who have these big goiters that are in their chest. In the old days, some cases, we would have to do a sternotomy and split the chest open to get those goiters out of the deep part of the chest. Howard can treat those now through this vascular procedure. And even if the patient winds up with surgery, it’s an enormously more straightforward surgery when the goiter has been dramatically decreased in size. What do people do in underserved areas? The North American Society for Interventional Thyroidology, NASIT, is an organization that I started with a number of people in California, in Florida, in New York, from some of the premier institutions in the country. It really is a home for all of the people doing minimally invasive procedures and interventional thyroidology like I do. “I always tell people, just because you have a wrench doesn’t make you a good mechanic. You need to know how to use the equipment.” If people are looking for a doctor like that in their area, there’s a search function on the website. They can go to www.nasit.org , and they can find a doctor in their area. If someone needs a highly specialized treatment and they don’t have a specialist in their area, they need to find one if that’s the procedure that they need. Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are internationally recognized leaders in providing innovative, supportive, and expert care to people who have thyroid disease. We offer a full spectrum of care, from the diagnosis of thyroid nodules to the newest interventional, minimally invasive treatments that are not widely available at other institutions. I always tell people, just because you have a wrench doesn’t make you a good mechanic. You need to know how to use the equipment. When people have real diseases that need a real evaluation, making sure that you’re working with a center that really can offer top-of-the-line care and expert diagnostics as well as treatment options—there’s really no substitute for that. Endocrinology, Thyroid Disorders Steven Hodak, MD, is a professor of medicine in the Holman Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes & Metabolism, and co-director of NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program. He specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid nodules and cancer. He has pioneered advanced molecular methods to identify genetic indicators in cancer cells. Physician Resources At NYU Langone Health, our doctors and researchers participate in hundreds of clinical trials and research studies with the aim of translating findings into new, more effective treatments. Search our up-to-date registry to see if one of our current trials or studies meets the needs of your patient. Search Clinical Trials and Research Patient Transfers NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Transfer Center provides a single point of contact for referring physicians to transfer adult patients to and within NYU Langone’s inpatient locations, including Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, and helps facilitate direct admissions. To initiate a transfer, contact us at the numbers provided Schools of Medicine Our two distinct but related medical schools provide full-tuition scholarships to students enrolled in its MD degree programs—regardless of need or merit—to help address the nationwide physician shortage and student debt burden, as well as cultivate diversity and inclusion. The schools are distinct yet related entities of both NYU Langone Health and New York University. NYU Langone also is affiliated with NYC Health + Hospitals/Woodhull in Brooklyn, NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue and NYC Health + Hospitals/Gouverneur in Manhattan, and the VA NY Harbor Healthcare System. NYU Grossman School of Medicine has trained thousands of physicians and scientists who have helped to shape the course of medical history. Students have the opportunity to pursue a number of accelerated and dual-degree pathways. NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, on the campus of NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, offers an innovative, accelerated three-year curriculum exclusively devoted to training primary care physicians and developing leaders in health care systems. Graduate medical programs are available in more than 20 specialties. NYU Grossman School of Medicine provides the highest standard of continuing medical education (CME). Our courses—including virtual live activities, regularly scheduled series, and enduring materials—are developed and taught by leaders in medicine from NYU Langone Health and around the country. Search for upcoming events or join our CME email list Through the graduate medical education training programs at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, residents and fellows work with some of the leading physician-educators in the world while caring for a diverse patient population. Learn about training opportunities at Opportunities to Join Our Diverse Community Appointment as a faculty member at NYU Langone Health is a mark of distinction awarded to those with the unique qualifications to join our community of scholars and contribute to our academic mission. NYU Langone Health recently created the new Institute for Excellence in Health Equity designed to advance the mission of health equity across the entire health system. We strive to build a culture of inclusivity by facilitating and enabling recruitment, training, and mentorship of individuals who are underrepresented in medicine, including medical students, physicians, scientists, and faculty. Explore current faculty opportunities Optimizing Access to Fertility Preservation Across a Large Health System From left: Vanguie Armijo Mora, RN, Emeline M. Aviki, MD, and Rosemary Semler, RN. Source: NYU Langone Health The NYU Langone Oncofertility Program offers standard and novel treatments and prioritizes easy access to care. Under new protocols, oncofertility services are available to every patient with cancer, and any provider in the NYU Langone system—including nurses and physician assistants—can refer patients to a team of dedicated fertility nurse navigators. The program has performed the system’s first uterine transposition surgery and the first ovarian tissue cryopreservation. Although infertility is a common effect of many cancer therapies, only a small minority of patients take advantage of technologies available to preserve fertility before or during treatment. Studies point to numerous barriers preventing patients from seeking such care, including lack of awareness, the high cost of many fertility-preservation procedures, insufficient time to act due to an urgent diagnosis, and patients’ or providers’ discomfort with discussing reproductive issues. NYU Langone Health is addressing these obstacles with a new program that prioritizes easy access to care. Launched in February 2024, the Oncofertility Program at offers a comprehensive range of fertility counseling, education, and treatment options—including novel techniques such as uterine transposition and ovarian tissue cryopreservation. In addition to its clinical robustness, what sets the program apart is its proactive approach: Under a groundbreaking protocol, every patient treated for cancer at NYU Langone is given the opportunity to receive oncofertility services through a team of dedicated nurse navigators. And any provider who interacts with the patient can set the process in motion. “We want to optimize patients’ ability to live normal lives in the years that follow their cancer treatment.” Emeline M. Aviki, MD, MBA “We want to optimize patients’ ability to live normal lives in the years that follow their cancer treatment, including having children if they wish to do so,” says gynecologic oncologist , the program’s physician sponsor. “Our goal is to ensure that every patient with cancer who is treated at NYU Langone has seamless access to both standard of care and the most cutting-edge methods for fertility preservation.” Casting a Broad Net Dr. Aviki joined NYU Langone in 2023 from Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), where she had participated in a similar program. Although the NYU Langone has long offered egg freezing under the direction of reproductive endocrinologist and infertility specialists Elizabeth Fino, MD , in Manhattan, and Linda Sung, MD , in Long Island, Dr. Aviki set out to increase access and participation while expanding specialized services to patients across the health system. She recruited Rosemary Semler, RN, a veteran oncology nurse who had led MSKCC’s program, to direct the initiative. Oncologist Abraham Chachoua, MD , played a key role in championing the program and securing philanthropic support from NYU Langone’s , where he is director. Based at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, the team’s vision emphasizes making the program accessible at all NYU Langone locations. Physicians, nurses, and other providers are offered a new protocol: all patients diagnosed with cancer or a high-risk genetic mutation, or who express the desire to discuss family-building options posttreatment, should be asked if they would like to receive fertility-preservation counseling. If so, they can be referred to one of the program’s two nurse navigators—Semler and Vanguie Armijo Mora, RN—through an Epic order set. “Anyone can put in the referral,” says Semler. For example, chemotherapy nurses are encouraged to ask if fertility has been discussed before administering medication for the first time. “Sometimes, patients will decline fertility counseling, only to have their spouse express interest at the time treatment starts. You can just imagine the long-term impact on their relationship if they hadn’t been given the opportunity to discuss their wishes around this issue.” “Sometimes, patients will decline fertility counseling, only to have their spouse express interest at the time treatment starts. You can just imagine the long-term impact on their relationship.” Rosemary Semler, RN A consult can be arranged within 24 hours—or more quickly, if necessary. “We have arrangements with sperm banks where patients can collect right away so there is no significant delay in the administration of chemotherapy,” Semler adds. Offering Expert Advice and Cutting-Edge Care During a counseling session, navigators discuss the fertility-specific effects of prescribed cancer treatment and a patient’s options for fertility preservation. They can then provide referrals to the appropriate services at NYU Langone. These include not only established approaches such as sperm banking and egg retrieval, but also cutting-edge techniques that are available at few other medical centers worldwide. Recently, for example, Dr. Aviki and her colleague, , performed a pioneering uterine transposition surgery—a procedure that had previously been completed fewer than a dozen times in the United States, she says. This surgery, which involves temporarily relocating the uterus to the upper abdominal wall to avoid damage during pelvic radiation, can preserve both fertility and hormonal function. Similarly, ovarian tissue cryopreservation—in which tissue that holds the eggs is surgically removed and frozen before cancer treatment, and then reimplanted—enables restoration of premenopausal status as well as fertility in women who have undergone high-dose chemotherapy. “This patient population includes girls in early adolescence,” says Dr. Aviki. “It’s a terrible thing when a young girl needs to start chemotherapy so urgently that there isn’t enough time to undergo egg retrieval. In those cases this novel procedure is her only option to preserve fertility, and we are proud to offer it.” “When patients send a picture of their baby and tell me, ‘You made a difference,’ it’s incredibly rewarding.” The Oncofertility Program provides coordination across the cancer care team for patients seeking fertility preservation. It also orchestrates logistically challenging procedures such as inpatient sperm banking and facilitates communication between patients and caregivers. “Teenage boys may find it difficult to talk about ejaculation with a parent or physician,” Semler notes. “It’s often less stressful for them to talk over the phone with a nurse navigator who can explain the risk that treatment poses to their fertility and how to preserve sperm.” Helping Patients Afford Treatment Another key function of the program is to provide resources for patients facing the financial challenges posed by fertility-preservation procedures, which are rarely covered by insurance. In selecting partners to provide services such as egg freezing, the program sought out centers that would offer discounted rates. The program also partners with philanthropic organizations that offer help with costs, as well as arranging financial aid from NYU Langone for patients in need. “This work is a hopeful part of oncology practice,” Semler says. “When patients send a picture of their baby and tell me, ‘You made a difference,’ it’s incredibly rewarding. To help them have the life they always dreamed of is an amazing thing.” Emeline M. Aviki, MD, MBA, is a gynecologic oncologist and medical director of network integration and strategy for Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. Her research interests center on financial toxicity in cancer care, the treatment of gynecologic cancers, and the advancement of fertility-sparing surgical techniques. Rosemary Semler, RN, is a clinical nurse specialist and director of the Oncofertility Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research focuses on improving cancer patients’ access to fertility preservation procedures. Latest in Obstetrics & Gynecology Placenta Accreta Program Bolsters Comprehensive Maternal & Perinatal Care New program targets complex and serious disorder through systematic imaging, early diagnosis, and enhanced care coordination. Enhancing the Hospital Experience with Midwifery Care The inaugural director of midwifery services discusses responding to the growing demand for hospital-based midwifery care. Providing an Inclusive Path to Pregnancy Dr. Justin Brandt shares insights on how to support transgender and gender-diverse patients through pregnancy. Classifying Individual Cancers to Help Transform Treatment Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health At its core, the highly interdisciplinary field of molecular oncology is pursuing an ambitious goal: revealing the complex chemical and biological factors driving the development and progression of individual cancers. The rapid arrival of advanced tools, however, is empowering researchers like Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD—a leading specialist in cancer instability, the biology of rare cancers, and BRCA1 and BRCA2 tumor suppressors—to tackle this monumental challenge. Recruited to serve as the inaugural director of the new Center for Molecular Oncology at NYU Langone Health’s , Dr. Ganesan will collaborate with molecular pathologists, clinician researchers, and other experts to integrate a new wealth of genomic data into detailed cancer profiles for every patient. Here, Dr. Ganesan discusses his vision for what molecular oncology can accomplish. What led you to focus on molecular oncology as a new tool for cancer care? Dr. Ganesan: My original work focused on breast cancer and understanding DNA repair. But over the past 12 years, I’ve also been focused on the important role of cancer genomics in understanding our classification and treatment of disease. Back in 2012, when I was at Rutgers Cancer Institute, we developed one of the earliest molecular tumor boards, in which we started to say “Let’s review all cancers together—adult and pediatric, hematological and solid—and understand them by asking, What are the changes that made these tumor cells in each of these settings different from normal cells?” The intent is both to classify them and ultimately to derive treatments for them. What kind of shift in the field is needed to accomplish that? My experience seeing a variety of cancers and understanding their genomic landscape has made me realize that a significant challenge in oncology is the lack of proper classification of our diseases. We have syndromes: lung cancer really is a large collection of diseases. Modern oncology doesn’t treat “lung cancer”: it all depends on the genomic landscape, with different lung cancers having different treatments. “Modern oncology doesn’t treat ‘lung cancer’: it all depends on the genomic landscape, with different lung cancers having different treatments.” Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD It really is a change in how we classify our diseases and understand their biology. We need to break them down from organ-based syndromes into specific diseases that have specific treatments. In oncology, our classification of disease is going to be supplemented by the molecular alterations that are present in individual tumors. How do you envision that new focus on molecular alterations shaping cancer care? We’re aiming to apply these novel genomic analyses up front for all our patients. We now have all the critical pieces of information and the ability to monitor disease. Pairing that with the great depth of scientific and clinical expertise of the NYU Langone system will allow us to use the tumor mutational profile to inform the diagnosis and treatment of every patient. Advanced technologies, such as whole-genome sequencing, are also helping us understand that tumors can have a far greater range of genomic alterations than what is detectable with our “standard” sequencing techniques. The aim is to deploy what’s standard now, as well as develop the tools of the future, because we’re not satisfied with the status quo. “The aim is to deploy what’s standard now, as well as develop the tools of the future, because we’re not satisfied with the status quo.” Let’s monitor the cancers both in early- and late-stage settings by cell-free DNA analysis to understand when a tumor is coming back and how the tumor is changing under treatment—first to learn about the cancer biology and then to develop more-effective treatments for these patients. That’s our hope. How can this effort transform cancer research as well? We don’t want to generate data to create a museum of data. We want this to be a living thing for clinical investigators, where the data generation will nucleate clinical research. When we see patterns, can we then initiate clinical trials? When we detect novel alterations and new mechanisms of resistance, the basic and translational scientists can investigate these in the lab to determine their significance. If we see a novel alteration, we ask: Is this really causing the cancer? Is it targetable? Clinical researchers will help validate these insights, moving them from the lab to the patient. On top of that, we need to educate the next generation of oncologists, clinicians, and scientists on the value of these data and how to use them. My task will be to implement this with NYU Langone’s researchers and with commercial partners. I’m excited to get started, but it is a long game. “We don’t want to generate data to create a museum of data. We want this to be a living thing for clinical investigators, where the data generation will nucleate clinical research.” Where is the field of molecular oncology heading? I think it’s exploding. The number of pathway-specific drugs is taking off, with more and more drugs targeting specific molecular alterations. Immunotherapy is another weapon in the armamentarium. And there’s now a focused effort to better understand why some patients’ cancers respond to therapies while others don’t, and to assess treatment response early. These molecular tools will be crucial in unraveling these questions: the initial molecular profile of a tumor provides insights into how it developed, which therapies it may respond to, how it might evolve under current treatments. And this knowledge can guide the development of better treatments. Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD, is director of the Center for Molecular Oncology at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Urologist Dr. Stacy Loeb on the Benefit of Plant-Based Diets for Prostate Cancer Stacy Loeb, MD (left). Source: NYU Langone Health Encouraged by prior research revealing a link between plant-based diets and improved prostate cancer outcomes, professor of urology , has led several recent studies reinforcing the benefits of diet in both mitigating cancer risk and enhancing overall health. These insights inspired her to pursue an additional board certification in lifestyle medicine. Here, Dr. Loeb shares her findings—and what she now tells patients about plant-based eating. Dr. Loeb, do you recall the specific study that inspired you to research plant-based diets in prostate cancer? Dr. Loeb: I read about an early randomized trial from 2005 showing that patients with prostate cancer who engaged in a lifestyle intervention—including a vegan diet, physical activity, and stress reduction—experienced less disease progression compared with those who did not. Given how often I treat prostate cancer, I began educating myself further in this area and found that the research was compelling. “I wanted to be in a position to advise my patients if this is something that can help them.” Though traditional medical school training has not placed sufficient emphasis on nutrition as a complementary therapeutic approach, the benefits of plant-based eating overall are well documented. I wanted to be in a position to advise my patients if this is something that can help them. My interest led me to obtain an additional board certification in lifestyle medicine in 2023. What are some of your own findings around plant-based diets and their benefits for patients with prostate cancer? We have found that a plant-based diet is associated with both a lower risk of developing aggressive forms of prostate cancer and a reduction in disease progression among those diagnosed with the condition. We use a plant-based diet index (PDI) to measure adherence to plant consumption, with positive marks for plant foods and negative marks for animal-derived foods. In these studies, males who consumed plant-based diets were found to have a 19 percent lower risk of diagnosis with fatal prostate cancer, while those scoring in the highest quintile of PDI had a 47 percent lower risk of progression. Examples of plant-based meal options include a veggie burger, tofu salad, and vegan curry. Source: Getty Images While those findings are encouraging enough, we’ve also found an association between plant-based eating with better quality of life among prostate cancer survivors. Among patients treated for prostate cancer, we reported higher quality-of-life scores for sexual function, urinary function, and hormonal vitality among those eating the most plant-based and the least animal-based food. In my own practice, I have seen patients experience weight loss, improve blood pressure control, and no longer needing medication for their erectile dysfunction or urinary symptoms after adopting a plant-based diet. What is your working theory of why a plant-based diet may be so beneficial in prostate cancer, specifically? We know on a basic level that plant-based diets are the source of beneficial components such as fiber and antioxidants while eliminating processed and red meats, which are classified as carcinogens by the World Health Organization. We also know that plant-based diets improve cardiovascular health . Erectile dysfunction is often found to be the “canary in the coal mine,” an early-warning sign of problems with the vascular system. In fact, a diagnosis of erectile dysfunction has been found to precede cardiovascular events by approximately five years in some patients. This connection is reinforced by our observations of better erectile function when patients with prostate cancer eat more plant-based food. Anything that can help improve cardiovascular health—diet included—will likely also benefit the vascular system throughout the body. How have your findings impacted the advice you give patients who are at risk for or have developed prostate cancer? Are patients receptive to your counsel when it comes to diet? This research has significantly influenced my approach to patient care. I now routinely emphasize the benefits of plant-based eating as part of a comprehensive management plan for prostate cancer. While I do point out that many of these studies are observational in nature, it’s also true that there’s no evidence of harm in adopting a plant-based diet; in fact, the opposite is true. Patients treated for early-stage prostate cancer are then most likely to die from cardiovascular disease , so a diet that supports heart health is a win all around. “When patients are diagnosed, they want to know what they can do to improve their outcome. I pursued this research so that I could develop a truly informed answer to that question: that a plant-based diet is unlikely to hurt and likely to help.” I find most patients are amenable to making this diet change. And many report positive outcomes. For instance, Gabe Canales Brian Jones , who have publicly shared their journeys, demonstrate how adopting a plant-based diet can have a profound impact on managing prostate cancer. When patients are diagnosed, they want to know what they can do to improve their outcome. I pursued this research so that I could develop a truly informed answer to that question: that a plant-based diet is unlikely to hurt and likely to help. The teachable moment here is to encourage patients to adopt healthy lifestyle changes that can improve their quality of life and overall health. Advanced imaging localizes recurrent disease and enables cryoablation to target prostate lesion with minimal side effects. Four years after the salvage cryoablation procedure, regular PSA monitoring has found no evidence of prostate cancer in the patient. Advanced Imaging Enables Successful Salvage Partial Gland Cryoablation A man in his late 60s presented to at NYU Langone Health with radio-recurrent prostate cancer. In June 2008, doctors had diagnosed the patient with Gleason 4+4 prostate cancer and treated him five months later with intensity-modulated radiation therapy. Post-treatment prostate-specific antigen (PSA) monitoring in May 2013 showed a nadir of 0.3 ng/mL. By March 2019, however, his PSA had risen to 2.0 ng/mL with a doubling time of 8.2 months, raising concerns of disease recurrence. At NYU Langone, multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) and 18F-fluciclovine PET helped localize the lesion and rule out metastatic disease. After a discussion of treatment options, the patient selected a targeted salvage cryoablation procedure. A pretreatment transperineal prostate biopsy helped further characterize the extent of disease and demonstrated Gleason 4+5, Gleason grade 5, in the left lateral posterior, left posterior, and left medial posterior zones. “The management of radio-recurrent prostate cancer presents unique challenges and requires a tailored approach,” says urologic oncologist “Our use of MRI and targeted biopsy enabled precise localization of the disease recurrence. Localizing the cancer in this manner allowed the treatment to be directed to this region instead of the entire gland, minimizing side effects and procedure risk.” “The case is notable for the fact that there have been no complications on the order of a salvage prostatectomy, such as incontinence or rectal fistula, and the treatment has resulted in excellent short term cancer control.” In an ambulatory surgical suite, Dr. Wysock performed cryoablation via Endocare V-Probe cryoprobes advanced percutaneously into the prostate transperineally under ultrasound guidance. Post-ablation surveillance biopsies at six months and two years found no evidence of cancer in the ablation zone or remainder of the prostate; PSA and MRI monitoring have likewise shown no cancer over a four-year follow-up. The patient remains continent and intracorporeal injection therapy to treat his erectile dysfunction has yielded an adequate response. “The case is notable for the fact that there have been no complications on the order of a salvage prostatectomy, such as incontinence or rectal fistula, and the treatment has resulted in excellent short term cancer control,” Dr. Wysock says. James S. Wysock, MD, is an assistant professor of urology. In collaboration with Perlmutter Cancer Center, he develops advanced imaging techniques and treatment tools to optimize cancer diagnostics and therapy. Tackling Underuse & Expanding Access to Blood & Marrow Transplant Services Anne S. Renteria, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Acclaimed hematologist–oncologist Anne S. Renteria, MD , has joined NYU Langone Health as site director of the transplantation and cellular therapy program at Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island . Dr. Renteria will leverage her extensive academic and industry experience to expand stem cell transplant and cellular immunotherapy services. Previously, Dr. Renteria served as medical director of the stem cell transplant and cellular immunology program at MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, medical director of acute leukemia and stem cell transplant and cellular therapy programs at Rochester Regional Health, and senior medical director of Clinical Development at Forma Therapeutics, a Novo Nordisk company, leading the early clinical development of small molecules for the management of cancer. Here, she highlights the importance of local access to the latest advancements in bone marrow transplantation and CAR T-cell therapies, shares how her research on treatment underuse and interruptions shapes her priorities, and spotlights a key challenge facing the field of hematology–oncology. What inspired you to accept a position at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island? Dr. Renteria: I was drawn to the opportunity because Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island is part of a hospital system that is recognized as being one of the best transplant centers in the world. I was also inspired by NYU Langone’s commitment to increasing patients’ access to care by expanding the size of its workforce. “It’s important that patients who live on Long Island—or in any area—have access to state-of-the-art care without having to leave their community.” With over 7.5 million people living there, Long Island is a busy place with a sizable patient population. Treatment for blood conditions can be an extensive, multistep process. It’s important that patients who live on Long Island—or in any area—have access to state-of-the-art care in leukemia, myeloma, lymphoma, and transplants, including clinical trials when necessary, without having to leave their community. Your research addresses barriers to care. Can you share more about this work and your research priorities at NYU Langone? Dr. Renteria It’s essential that diverse patient populations benefit from advancements in bone marrow transplantation and CAR T-cell therapies. I was born in New York City, but I have lived in many different countries and speak English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French. I am very sensitive to the nuances of cultural differences and I want to help patients from different backgrounds access the care they need. “Age, race, ethnicity, and primary insurance contribute to the underuse and unplanned interruptions of multiple myeloma treatment. Those were the findings from our 2021 study.” Multiple myeloma, for example, is a complex and costly disease to manage. The expansion of available therapeutic options has inspired optimism regarding disease-related survival. However, age, race, ethnicity, and primary insurance contribute to the underuse and unplanned interruptions of multiple myeloma treatment. Those were the findings from our 2021 study Cancer Epidemiology , conducted with Nina Bickell, MD, MPH, and colleagues at Tisch Cancer Institute at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. In my clinical research at NYU Langone, I will collaborate with researchers to investigate how to increase access to care for minorities and how genetic and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) profile differences among ethnic groups affect transplant risks. Building on my expertise in industry, I am also working with NYU Langone scientists to tailor new treatment modalities in clinical development to specific patient populations, including minorities. There is also a need for older patients to have access to the best possible treatments with less toxicity. What are your top priorities as director of the transplantation and cellular therapy program ? As site director, my top priority is to work with my team to increase the armamentarium of specialized treatments patients have access to, including autologous and allogeneic transplant and CAR T-cell therapy. I will also focus on how we as a team, including social workers and nurse navigators, can help patients seamlessly navigate the treatment process, from the moment of their diagnosis through their transition to CAR T-cell transplant. Illustration of a T-cell (brown) attacking cancer cells (purple). Source: Getty Images I also want to create a survivorship program to help patients thrive during blood cancer diagnosis and treatment and achieve the best quality of life possible. Patients are always at the center of my priorities. How will blood and marrow transplant services on Long Island fit in with the broader healthcare structure? We are seeking to expand the blood and marrow transplant program across the NYU Langone system and want to coordinate efforts. Therefore, although I will be based on Long Island, I will be collaborating with colleagues at our other sites, including Jeffrey G. Schneider, MD Division of Hematology and Oncology at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, Oscar B. Lahoud, MD , chief of hematology at Mohammad Maher Abdul Hay, MD , director of the Clinical Leukemia Program at I will also be working closely with specialties crucial for any transplant service, including the emergency department, critical care, infectious disease, and classic hematology. We need to be mindful of those services every day to provide the best quality of care for our patients. What do you consider to be the biggest challenges ahead in the field of bone marrow transplant? How will the Perlmutter Cancer Center and your work aim to address them? The shortage of physicians and staff is one of the biggest challenges in cancer care in general, and physicians specializing in blood cancer therapy are sorely needed. “The shortage of physicians and staff is one of the biggest challenges in cancer care.” Transplant, which is one word that represents different procedures under the same umbrella, is a highly intense field and specialty. It takes a village, including highly trained physicians who specialize in blood and marrow transplantation, advanced practice providers, transplant coordinators, social workers, nutritionists, physical therapists, symptoms management specialists, and others to provide each patient with the best care possible. To increase the hematology–oncology workforce, we need to understand what hematologist–oncologists, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other team members need to enjoy continuing to work in this field, while tailoring this workforce to meet the patient’s needs. With a dedicated hematology–oncology service in the community, my hope is that we will not only support patients locally, but also drive new talent to the field and increase retention. Hematology, Bone Marrow Transplant Anne S. Renteria, MD, is site director of the transplantation and cellular therapy program at Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and a clinical associate professor of medicine at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. She specializes in increasing access to bone marrow transplant and CAR T-cell therapies. Unleashing the Clinical Potential of Whole-Genome Sequencing Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health NYU Langone’s new Center for Molecular Oncology intends to provide molecular analysis and serial liquid biopsies for all patients diagnosed with cancer. To maximize insights, Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD, and colleagues are leveraging whole-genome sequencing to enhance mutation detection beyond standard targeted gene panels. As an example of how whole-genome sequencing can expand knowledge, Dr. Imielinski’s lab used the technique to identify a new class of HR-deficiency-enriched rearrangements. The goal is to translate whole-genome data into actionable, EMR-integrated reports that clinicians can easily interpret for personalized treatment decisions. A growing body of evidence supports the potential of routine molecular profiling of tumors as a transformative practice in oncology. In addition, liquid biopsies—tests that detect DNA shed by tumors into the bloodstream—are emerging as a crucial tool for monitoring malignancies over time. Yet these molecular approaches are currently used almost exclusively for advanced disease, or for the small minority of cancers in which precision therapies are indicated as a first-line treatment. NYU Langone Health’s new Center for Molecular Oncology, launched in October 2024 , is pioneering a care model in which both practices play a far broader role. In the near future, all patients diagnosed with cancer throughout the health system will receive a molecular analysis of their cancer, followed by serial liquid biopsies as needed. And to help maximize the utility of such assays, researchers attached to the center are turning to a cutting-edge methodology: whole-genome sequencing. “With standard-of-care diagnostic tests, we’re looking at a thousandth of the genome. By looking at the whole genome, we can detect and analyze many more mutations that may be therapeutically as well as biologically important.” Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD Spearheading that effort is , director of cancer genomics at . “With standard-of-care diagnostic tests, such as targeted gene panels, we’re looking at a thousandth of the genome,” Dr. Imielinski says. “By looking at the whole genome, we can detect and analyze many more mutations that may be therapeutically as well as biologically important.” Hunting for Key Mutations That Targeted Panels May Miss Over the past two decades, targeted gene panels have become the gold standard for genomic assessment of cancer. The most advanced approach uses next-generation sequencing technology to test hundreds of genes simultaneously for known biomarkers of cancer. Although known as “comprehensive” genomic profiling, this method can detect only preselected gene variants. Whole-genome sequencing, by contrast, analyzes an entire genome—whether that of the patient, the patient’s tumor, or both—for variants that may prove relevant to an individual’s cancer or its treatment, even if they are not currently recognized as clinically significant. Advanced computing techniques, such as machine learning, are employed to identify both known biomarkers and variants worth investigating further. At present, this methodology is confined mostly to research labs. Regulators have approved a handful of clinical applications— acute myeloid leukemia in the United States select cancers, including pediatric cancers, in Europe and Australia —but the routine use of whole-genome tests has yet to enter mainstream oncology practice. Dr. Imielinski, who joined NYU Langone in 2022, is a molecular pathologist with an extensive background in computational biology and genomics, and a nationally recognized leader in efforts to bring whole-genome-based diagnostic methods into cancer care. His research focuses on developing new algorithms and technologies for analyzing a tumor genome’s structure and biochemistry. “My lab is working to identify genetic biomarkers that point to new therapies, or that can determine whether existing targeted drugs or immunotherapies could work for patients who are not now considered candidates,” he explains. “Those biomarkers could also help us determine which patients would be best suited for which clinical trials, potentially benefiting both the individual and the search for better cancer treatments.” Beyond DNA “Typos” To find such markers, Dr. Imielinski and his team look beyond the small “typos” in DNA, which is what many standard clinical assays and algorithms use to detect and characterize tumor cells. Instead, they investigate more-complex changes, such as rearrangements, copy number alterations, and the folding patterns of abnormal genomes within the nucleus of tumor cells. “It’s amazing that cancer cells can even survive with such deranged genomes,” he says. “Learning how they do so will help us find new ways to detect and destroy them.” “It’s amazing that cancer cells can even survive with such deranged genomes. Learning how they do so will help us find new ways to detect and destroy them.” recent Nature study , for example, Dr. Imielinski’s lab used whole-genome sequencing to investigate the mechanisms behind homologous recombination (HR) deficiency, which is associated with faulty DNA repair. As a result, HR deficiency—and therefore susceptibility to certain DNA-damaging drugs—can be diagnosed by identifying characteristic patterns of mutations around the genome. Analyzing the genomes of thousands of BRCA1- and BRCA2-deficient cancers, the researchers identified a previously unknown class of HR-deficiency-enriched rearrangements that can only be detected by whole-genome sequencing. Identifying tumors with these rearrangement patterns indicates specific backup repair mechanisms that may point to new therapeutic strategies for HR-deficient cancers. Translating Laboratory Findings into Clinical Breakthroughs Eventually, whole-genome-based methods could lead to more comprehensive molecular testing of tumors and to new drug targets, enabling personalized therapies to become standard of care for a wide variety of cancers. A whole-genome approach could also bring liquid biopsies that are more sensitive and specific, allowing earlier detection of metastases or relapses—and surer judgments of when treatment can be safely ended—than is possible with current tests. One reason for optimism, Dr. Imielinski observes, is the increasing affordability of whole-genome sequencing. “Until recently, the cost of sequencing a cancer genome was $5,000 to $10,000,” he says. “Thanks largely to expiring patents, costs have decreased fivefold, and they could fall below $100 in the next five years.” To make whole-genome cancer testing a practical reality, however, such assays and their reports will have to be tailored to the day-to-day needs of clinicians and healthcare systems. For this task, Dr. Imielinski and his colleagues can draw on deep institutional experience. In 2021, the Food and Drug Administration approved the NYU Langone Genome PACT (Profiling of Actionable Cancer Targets) test , a novel sequencing tool that detects changes in 607 genes simultaneously. Designed by Matija Snuderl, MD , director of molecular pathology in the Department of Pathology , the test converts complex data into a report that includes a suggested diagnosis and recommended treatments. It matches patients with approved therapies for a variety of solid tumors, with promising experimental treatments, and with ongoing clinical trials. And it seamlessly integrates with electronic medical records. Dr. Imielinski is working with Dr. Snuderl and other members of the Genome PACT team to follow a similar route to bring whole-genome-based tumor tests and liquid biopsies into routine clinical practice at NYU Langone. “In the United States, no other academic health system has taken the leap to this paradigm,” he notes. “We want to show that it works and to provide evidence that other people can follow.” Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD, is an associate professor in the Department of Pathology and director of the Cancer Genomic Research Center. His research interests focus on expanding the clinical utility of whole-genome sequencing in oncology, including the development of software for analyzing and interpreting whole genomes. Center for Molecular Oncology Will Deliver Personalized Cancer Care at Scale Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD, and Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health The rapidly advancing field of molecular oncology has given researchers and clinicians increasingly detailed views of the drivers of tumor development and progression. NYU Langone Health’s new Center for Molecular Oncology aims to push the envelope on the standard of cancer care by ensuring that every patient receives liquid biopsies, enabling their tumor DNA to be sequenced. The molecular data will give clinicians at critical access to diagnostic information as well as more granular characterizations that can help them match each cancer to the best available therapies. Here, Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD, an expert in cancer biology and DNA repair and the inaugural director of the Center for Molecular Oncology, and , Perlmutter Cancer Center’s director, discuss the new initiative’s unique aims and potential to scale up personalized cancer therapies across the medical center. What are your principal aims for the new center? The aim of this is to bring the ongoing advances in molecular analysis of cancers and the application of targeted therapies to NYU Langone, and use that as part of our standard approach to treating every patient with cancer. By integrating this new molecular information with multiple levels of data—including pathology, histology, radiology, and patient history—we can address key features like tumor behavior and response to therapy. In addition, we can clarify the basic biology and better understand how we classify and organize diseases to advance the field and develop new therapeutics. A big part of the uniqueness of this is the scale: for every patient, we are going to use liquid biopsies to follow their cancers over time as the standard of care.” Dr. Kimmelman: A big part of the uniqueness of this is the scale: for every patient, we are going to use liquid biopsies to follow their cancers over time as the standard of care. At Perlmutter Cancer Center, we have 11 sites. Regardless of where patients enter our system, they’ll have access to this expertise. How are you planning to do this? The goal is to develop an initial molecular profile of each tumor, while using serial liquid biopsies, DNA analysis, and other methods to monitor for changes. We’ll use the data not just for a diagnosis classification, but also to monitor for relapse, recurrence, and response to treatment. NYU Langone has deep strength in understanding tumor evolution by looking at the large volume of data coming from these molecular tools. The medical center also has the deep scientific expertise to use these findings to better understand tumor biology in the lab and do appropriate trials in the clinic. One of the amazing things about this center and the exercise we’re doing is that once you create both the physical and the IT infrastructure, every new test can automatically be implemented into this paradigm. Initially, there’s going to be a heavy reliance on liquid biopsies and DNA sequencing, with some transcriptomics. These are the techniques that are readily available and rapid. But we’re going to incorporate new tests as they become available, whether developed by our investigators or from other centers, and that next generation of tests will be far more sensitive and specific. How do you integrate all of that information and scale it up across a large medical center? Infrastructure is a huge part of this: it’s everything from computing power to data storage to the ability to make sure we have the consent of the patient to use all of their clinical information and integrate it into the medical record. Fortunately, we have an integrated medical record at all of our centers and we’re fully interconnected, giving us the foundation for further expansion. Artistic depiction of DNA structure alongside sequencing data. Source: Getty Images We also have a cancer data hub within Perlmutter Cancer Center. We’re recruiting a new leader to help expand it, because as you can imagine, we’re going to have a lot of information that will need to be integrated and utilized for diagnostics, other clinical purposes, and research. That means building up both the computing and the personnel infrastructure. What we want to create is a living dataset as opposed to a museum of stuff from the past. It’s like looking at a pressed flower versus a flower growing; it’s a very different approach. And now we have the technology to make this possible. It is essential to do this in an equitable and comprehensive fashion across the system, ensuring fair access for all as we take that next step to advance patient care. So how might this molecular characterization advance and transform cancer care? Right now, comprehensive molecular characterization of tumors is often used in the advanced setting to help guide treatments after everything else has failed. We want to make the molecular profile part of the up-front diagnosis and classification of cancer for every patient. We want to make the molecular profile part of the up-front diagnosis.” Once you understand the tumor’s molecular profile, you can do sophisticated studies like tumor-informed cell-free DNA (cfDNA) analysis to look at which patients are likely to experience cancer recurrence. This can be done even when the tumor is in an early stage or after it has been surgically removed. We can also identify who truly benefits—and when—from adjuvant therapy. We don’t know the answers to all of these questions yet, but we can start asking them. Dr. Kimmelman : A big part of our center is the expertise that Shridar brings in the molecular interpretation of the tests. We have tumor boards where we discuss changes in the CAT and MRI scans and we look at the pathology. But equally, if not more important, is taking this molecular data and integrating it into the overall picture. Shridar is going to lead center-wide molecular tumor boards for all of our physicians, where we can take this data and identify clinically relevant changes in the mutation profile. We’re going to be able to rapidly match patients to the best-available targeted therapies, but also to a suite of clinical trials tailored to their cancer’s molecular profile. Shridar, the team, and I are already developing a program where—in a single day—a patient with cancer can have their tumor biopsied, receive a pathological and molecular diagnosis, and leave with an oral medicine if there is a drug available for the target. We’re taking this to the next level. Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD, is a professor of radiation oncology, the Anita Steckler and Joseph Steckler Chair of the Department of Radiation Oncology, and director of Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research centers on the biology of pancreatic cancer, with a focus on the metabolic processes fueling their growth. A Call for Mastering Transperineal Drainage Dr. Fredrick Gulmi shares how the technique resolved a patient’s severe prostatic abscess faster than antibiotics alone. Optilume Success After Urethroplasty Dr. Nnenaya Mmonu highlights a recurrent stricture after urethroplasty that was successfully treated with Optilume. Aquablation: The Versatile ‘Swiss Army Knife’ Dr. Christopher Kelly presents a case of a 160-gram benign prostate hyperplasia treated using Aquablation. More from Urology Ninety-One Percent Success with Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation The largest five-year oncological outcomes study for primary PGCA reveals excellent cancer control. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AUA Annual Meeting See the urology experts from NYU Langone Health who joined their international colleagues in San Antonio, May 3 to 6. Rare Disorder Frames Unique Care Needs in Pelvic Organ Prolapse Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, affecting connective tissue, complicates how urogynecologists treat a common condition. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Urology Ranked #2 (tied) in Urology Top 5 in NIH funding (Source: Blue Ridge) Pioneers in MRI to evaluate prostate cancer Subscribe for Updates in Urology Care for Pulmonary Sarcoidosis Pulmonary sarcoidosis, also called lung sarcoidosis, causes inflammatory cells in the lungs called granulomas, which can affect lung function. Granulomas usually heal and disappear on their own. But when they don’t heal, the lung tissue can remain inflamed, and become scarred and stiff. This condition, called pulmonary fibrosis, changes the structure of the lungs and can affect your breathing. Bronchiectasis—in which pockets form in the air tubes of the lung and become infected—can also occur, though it is rare. To make an appointment with one of our pulmonologists trained in sarcoidosis, please call Patients with lung sarcoidosis usually have shortness of breath, dry cough, chest pain, wheezing, and similar symptoms. Our pulmonologists, part of NYU Langone’s , evaluate your symptoms and may perform breathing tests, chest X-rays, CT scans, and other tests to confirm the diagnosis. Your pulmonary doctor may also choose to perform a bronchoscopy and biopsy of the lung. This is a way of sampling the lung tissue through a thin tube that is inserted through the mouth. On rare occasions, your doctor may need to perform a surgical lung biopsy to make the diagnosis. Once the diagnosis is confirmed, your doctor conducts an examination to make sure that sarcoidosis has not affected other parts of your body, such as the heart, skin, or eyes. Based on this evaluation and consultation with other sarcoidosis specialists, your doctor recommends a course of treatment. Not all patients with sarcoidosis need treatment. For the majority, the inflammation heals on its own. If you do need additional treatment, which may include pills or injections, your doctor will discuss it with you and other providers involved in your care. Care for Cardiac Sarcoidosis Our specialists at NYU Langone’s Sarcoidosis Program provide expert care for cardiac sarcoidosis, a serious condition that affects heart rhythms and function. Cardiac sarcoidosis occurs when groups of white blood cells, called granulomas, accumulate in the heart muscle. Cardiac sarcoidosis does not always cause symptoms, but when it does, it can affect the ability of the heart to pump blood as well as cause both abnormally fast and slow heart rhythms. To make an appointment with one of our cardiologists trained in sarcoidosis, please call Symptoms of cardiac sarcoidosis include shortness of breath, swelling in the legs, dizziness, light-headedness, and loss of consciousness. It can be difficult to diagnose cardiac sarcoidosis, which is often mistaken for other forms of heart failure. Our heart experts, which include specialists in advanced heart failure , electrophysiology, and cardiac imaging, work together to identify cardiac sarcoidosis. Usually, a biopsy is performed to verify the diagnosis of sarcoidosis outside of the heart, followed by an PET/CT scan , echocardiograms, and rhythm monitoring, which are used to confirm cardiac involvement. Based on the diagnosis, we plan your individualized treatment strategy, to help reverse as well as prevent any further heart damage. Treatment includes standard heart failure medications as well as varying immunosuppressives, which are medications that help prevent the immune system from damaging healthy cells or tissue. To prevent dangerous arrhythmias, we may also recommend cardiac devices or ablations , the use of extreme heat or cold to destroy tissue causing the irregular heartbeat. We work with other specialists in the Sarcoidosis Program to provide comprehensive treatment for each individual. If needed, we refer patients to the . We are also conducting clinical research to advance care in cardiac sarcoidosis. Extending the Cardioprotective Effects of Colchicine For high-risk patients with gout, colchicine could lower the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events. Unveiling the Origins of Early Lupus Nephritis Multiomics is poised to unravel the disease’s early pathogenesis. Inclusive Study Tests Safety of Shingles Vaccination in Patients with Lupus NYU Langone specialists lead multi-institutional study to clarify safety of Shingrix vaccine in patients with SLE. Intestinal Bloom of Gut Bacterium Linked to Lupus Flares Study links symptom flare-ups with a specific gut bacterium and inflammation-associated genes. Safely Stopping Hydroxychloroquine in Older Patients with Lupus A clinical trial is set to resolve key uncertainties about curtailing treatment for patients in lupus remission. Altering the Gut Microbiome May Aid Response to Drug in RA A pilot study is assessing whether gut microbes may predict and impact methotrexate effectiveness in rheumatoid arthritis. Driving Forward Discoveries in Autoimmune Disease Rheumatologist Dr. Jose U. Scher discusses his vision for a translational research collaborative. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Rheumatology Ranked #9 in Rheumatology $29M in new research project value (2022) 166 faculty members “Most Talked About” in SLE Research Two studies led by Peter M. Izmirly, MD , were among Arthritis & Rheumatology ’s “Most Talked About Articles of 2021”: “Prevalence of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus in the United States: Estimates From a Meta-Analysis of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Lupus Registries.” “Evaluation of Immune Response and Disease Status in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Patients Following SARS–CoV-2 Vaccination.” Subscribe for Updates in Rheumatology Building ‘Digital Phenotypes’ of Stress-Related Disorders Researchers harness artificial intelligence to better detect, prevent, and treat burnout and other pathologies. Sleep Disorders Offer a Potential Target for Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention Research explores the link between obstructive sleep apnea, social determinants of health, and cognitive decline. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Psychiatry High Performing in Psychiatry #5 rated residency program (Doximity) #6 in NIH research funding (Blue Ridge) Subscribe for Updates in Psychiatry Osseointegration Surgery Improves Connection Between Limb & Prosthesis Permanent implant system in patient with transfemoral amputation increases comfort, mobility, and limb strength. How One Institution’s Heritage Embodies the History of Orthopedics A longtime leader in surgical innovation, NYU Langone orthopedics traces its origins to pioneers of the field. Free Flap Reconstruction: Is Surgical Delay Okay? Meta-analysis confirms importance of surgery within first three days but reveals a nuanced time–outcome relationship thereafter. Computer-Assisted Navigation Is Safe & Effective for TSA Analysis of over 16,000 cases finds CAN has high accuracy and reliability, low complication rates for glenoid implantation. Getting Clarity on Inpatient Falls after Knee Replacement A higher risk of inpatient falls was tied to length of stay and revision rates, not to adductor canal blocks or tourniquets. Biologic Adjuvants Promote Healing of Ankle Cartilage Lesions Multiple biologic augmentation strategies can aid mechanical robustness after cartilage injuries in the ankle joint. Predicting Discharge Destination after Joint Replacement A new tool for predicting discharge to home versus inpatient facilities passes validation. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Orthopedics Ranked #3 in Orthopedics 34K+ orthopedic procedures performed annually orthopedic physician experts on faculty Osseointegration Surgery Improves Connection Between Limb & Prosthesis Muscle Reinnervation & Osseoanchored Prosthesis Implantation In the initial surgery, the surgeons performed targeted muscle reinnervation to restore nerves to the patient’s thigh and reduce his pain and phantom limb syndrome symptoms. Then in the distal end of his residual femur bone, they implanted the titanium osseoanchored prosthetic system, and used a bone graft harvested from the femur’s intramedullary canal to allow the bone to fill the gap and grow into the implant. Surgeons reinnervate the patient’s thigh muscles and implant the titanium connector. Attachment of Titanium Abutment to Osseoanchored Prosthetic Fixture In the second surgery, surgeons attached a titanium abutment to the implanted osseoanchored prosthetic fixture through a skin aperture to allow a connection to the external prosthesis. A delicate soft tissue surgery and complex closure with skin graft around the metal abutment ensured proper tightening of the patient’s thigh musculature, fat, and skin, allowing it to heal down to the metal and bone and remove all gaps. A new titanium abutment attaches to the implanted osseoanchored prosthetic fixture in the patient’s thigh. Fitting of Full Prosthetic Device After a few months of healing, the patient was fitted for the full prosthetic device in May 2023. Physical therapy helped him gain strength and confidence and he began relying less on assistive devices. The technique, initially developed for dental implants, can be used for both upper and lower limb prosthetics, and may significantly expand the range of options after amputation due to bone tumors. At a follow-up, the patient tries on the full prosthetic system. Subscribe for Updates in Orthopedics The Foundations of Orthopedic Surgery: From the Hospital for Joint Diseases to NYU Langone For a rich compilation of the history of orthopedics at our institution, see this recent issue of the Bulletin of the Hospital for Joint Diseases New Partnership Aims to Improve Perinatal Outcomes in Ghana A unique collaboration is focused on improving health outcomes for pregnant women and newborn children. Maternal Death Rates May Be Overestimated Soaring rates recorded in recent years may reflect a methodological artifact, according to a new study. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Obstetrics & Gynecology Top Obstetrics & Gynecology Programs in the U.S. #1 clinical trials program* *#1 clinical trials program for gynecologic cancer patient recruitment in NYS (and ranks #10 nationally, according to the GOG Foundation) Baby-Friendly Hospitals** **NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Nerve Block Relieves Chronic Vaginal Pain from Pudendal Neuralgia Ruling Out Other Causes of Vaginal Pain After a woman in her early 40s presented to NYU Langone with persistent stress urinary incontinence and vaginal pain, Dr. Rosenblum and Dr. Kirpekar ruled out causes such as interstitial cystitis, persistent genital arousal disorder, endometriosis, and a vaginal or urinary tract infection. Damage along the tri-branched pudendal nerve’s route through the pelvis can mimic many other conditions. A diagram of the 3 main terminal branches of the pudendal nerve. Asking Questions Key to Differential Diagnosis for Pudendal Neuralgia With no imaging or clinical diagnostic tests for pudendal neuralgia, asking detailed questions may be the best way to help diagnose it. “Vaginal birth can trigger it, and I always ask about a history of physical and/or sexual trauma, especially if the patient remembers when the pain started,” Dr. Rosenblum says. Another clue: Sitting for long periods can compress the nerve and worsen the pain. Five main diagnostic criteria for pudendal neuralgia. Pudendal Nerve Block: Both Diagnostic and Therapeutic After tests and questions pointed toward pudendal neuralgia, Dr. Kirpekar used an X-ray-guided nerve block to successfully diagnose and treat the patient. If effective, patients should report immediate pain relief, particularly the burning sensation. On average, her patients find relief from the medication for 6 months or more. If indicated, a pudendal nerve block can offer rapid relief—and a definitive diagnosis. Subscribe for Updates in Obstetrics & Gynecology Supporting Coordinated, Accessible Care for Cerebral Palsy The Center for Children is one of the few programs to offer comprehensive care for children living with cerebral palsy. Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital: A Leader in Advanced Pediatric Care Highest Level Children’s Surgery Verification from the American College of Surgeons Level IV NICU and Designated Regional Perinatal Center Comprehensive Transplant Care The only program in the tristate area to offer transplantation for all four solid organs: lungs, heart, liver, and kidneys. 1 of 4 2 of 4 3 of 4 4 of 4 Subscribe for Updates from Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital Sign up for emails for practice-changing news and perspectives from our experts. Reducing Revisits for Patients with Dementia Leaving the ED NIH-funded research seeks to improve emergency care and wellbeing of persons with dementia. Treating Lumbar Spinal Stenosis in Under One Hour The outpatient MILD procedure offers a promising alternative to open surgery. Nursing Home Nighttime Noise Levels: Lessons from COVID-19 NYC-area study ties increased noise to nighttime disturbances and altered sleep-wake cycles that accompanied new restrictions. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Geriatrics Ranked #2 in Geriatrics Est. 1981 as one of the first Geriatric Medicine fellowships in the U.S. NIA-funded Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center Subscribe for Updates in Geriatrics Atherosclerosis May Be a Risk Factor for IBD Population-based study finds increased odds of developing IBD among patients with a history of cardiovascular diagnoses. GI Hospitalist Model Gains Traction Impacts on inpatient care include reduced length of stay and an increase in general GI procedures. Uncovering the Role of GERD in Complex Pulmonary Disease Researchers pinpoint GERD as an underrecognized comorbidity that may exacerbate chronic lung conditions. A Leader in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Ranked #5 in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Best in New York State 1-year post liver transplant survival > 125 Whipple surgeries/year Robotic Whipple Offers Clear View of Complex Anatomy A Tumor Atop the IVC A 73-year-old patient presented to NYU Langone Health with a pancreatic tumor sitting directly above the IVC. The patient was scheduled for a Whipple and qualified for a robotic approach. Imaging reveals a pancreatic tumor (yellow) located near the inferior vena cava (IVC). 1 of 5 Setting Up for Success The success of the robotic approach adopted at NYU Langone starts with patient positioning and port setup. A split-leg position allows the surgical assistant more access to the abdomen, improving efficiency and reducing fatigue. The surgical team emphasizes the benefit of refining port placement and instrument use as the robotic experience grows. Diagram of port placement. All ports are aligned in a row across the abdomen except one port by the left ribcage is moved up to ensure less interference during key suturing maneuvers. 2 of 5 A Clear View of the Critical Anatomy Surgeon Megan D. Winner, MD, performed the Whipple, which she typically begins by elevating the colon and dividing the attachments of the duodenum, enabling easier handling of the anatomy when addressing bleeding. Midway through, the camera location is changed from patient left to patient right, improving visualization and minimizing organ traction as the gallbladder is excised and the small bowel is moved away from the colon. Surgeon’s view, showing the proximity of the tumor (right) to the IVC (left). 3 of 5 Separating the Tumor from the IVC Separating the tumor from the IVC at the confluence of the LRV was the most vulnerable operative step. The robotic platform enabled this to be performed with perfect visualization and in a near-bloodless manner, proving superior to an open approach, and secured the ability to proceed with the robotic system. If the vessel had been involved directly, an open operation with reconstruction of the IVC would have been required. Surgeon’s view, showing the complete dissection of the IVC (left) and the left renal vein (LRV) (right) from underneath the tumor. 4 of 5 Reconstruction and Recovery During reconstruction, a connecting limb is extended below the colon to the pancreas, with another extended above the colon to the stomach, and adipose tissue is interposed. Dr. Winner speculates this separation lessens the impact of a pancreatic anastomosis leak, reduces the occurrence of delayed gastric emptying, shortens the length of stay, and has driven a reduced need for gastronomy tubes. This patient was discharged on postoperative day 4. Surgeon’s view during reconstruction and anastomosis following the Whipple procedure. 5 of 5 Subscribe for Updates in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Complete View of the Cornea Now in Sight NYU Langone is the first institution in North America to acquire a CellChek C, a wide-field scanning specular microscope, for research under IRB approval. Redefining the Management of Fuchs Dystrophy From success with DSO to investigating ROCK inhibitors, NYU Langone specialists pioneer new approaches. New Push for Optic Neuritis as the Fifth Lesion Site in Multiple Sclerosis Optic nerve lesions may increase the diagnostic accuracy of MS and justify initiation of disease-modifying therapy. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Ophthalmology Honor Roll USNWR Best Hospitals Research Leader $4M+ in NIH funding, including the multi-center Zoster Eye Disease Study 100K+ annual patient visits Subscribe for Updates in Ophthalmology Cochlear Implant Center Marks 40 Years of Innovation The co-directors of the highly influential center discuss its impact on multiple strategies for addressing hearing loss Dr. Umamaheswar Duvvuri on the Cutting Edge of Robotic Surgery The chair of otolaryngology tells Doctor Radio why the future lies with robots, telesurgery, and AI. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Ranked #10 in Ear, Nose, & Throat 2021 NASBS Multidisciplinary Team of Distinction Cochlear implant surgeries performed each year Building Capacity for Hearing Loss Care in Uganda Dr. Chris Ndoleriire, chair of the department at Makerere University, and Dr. Amina Seguya, attending otologist. Ugandan residents learning from NYU Langone chief resident Leena Asfour, MD. Ugandan residents learning procedures in the new cadaver temporal bone laboratory for the first time. Dr. Amina Seguya, an Ugandan attending physician, at an NYU temporal bone course. Subscribe for Updates in Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Open Surgery Resolves Large AVM Causing Intractable Headaches Teen with severe headaches due to occipital AVM cured by endovascular embolization combined with surgical resection. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the CNS 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health physicians who are joining colleagues in Houston, September 28 to October 2. Explore Neurology Explore Neurosurgery A Leader in Neurology & Neurosurgery Ranked #1 in Neurology & Neurosurgery $1.5M+ funding for Neurosurgery clinical trials Top 10 for NIH funding in neurology (Blue Ridge) New Push for Optic Neuritis as the Fifth Lesion Site in Multiple Sclerosis In the theoretical case of a 24-year-old woman presenting to a hospital’s emergency department with blurred vision, some of the hallmark features pointed to a diagnosis of early multiple sclerosis (MS). Suggestive clinical findings also included an age of onset between 20 and 50 years, eye pain that worsened with eye movements, and visual loss occurring over several days to two weeks. Research has established five main clinical findings that point to optic neuritis in patients. Steven Galetta, MD, and colleagues have used optic coherence tomography (OCT) to help establish a key imaging criterion for diagnosing an optic neuropathy—and in the proper clinical setting, for diagnosing optic neuritis. The potential early manifestation of MS, they found, could be reliably identified through an asymmetry of five or more microns in the thickness between right and left optic nerves, which normally measure between 90 and 100 microns apiece. Imaging by OCT from an actual case shows an asymmetry of 21 microns between a patient’s right and left optic nerves: 75 versus 96 microns, respectively—a potential early sign ofoptic nerve impairment and multiple sclerosis. Researchers who identify the signs of optic neuritis must consider five main causes for the inflammation. Beyond MS, neuromyelitis optica and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) antibody-associated disease can present similarly. Systemic infections such as syphilis or Lyme disease can likewise impact the optic nerve while the inflammation sometimes fails to associate with any established cause. Differential diagnosis of optic neuritis must distinguish among multiple potential causes. Subscribe for Updates in Neurology & Neurosurgery One Size Doesn’t Fit All in Concussion Recovery Precise assessment and individualized management help detect and treat brain disturbances early. Standardizing Care for Children with Disabilities How a rehabilitation specialist applies a WHO framework to streamline care for pediatric patients. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Rehabilitation Ranked #4 (tied) in Rehabilitation $7.1M+ research funding in 2021 250K+ annual outpatient visits The Rehabilitation Course for the World’s First Face & Double Hand Transplant An Extraordinarily Complex Case In July 2018, a car accident left 22-year-old Joseph DiMeo with third-degree burns covering 89 percent of his body and post-traumatic facial deformity from composite tissue loss of the face. Additional diagnoses were severe neck contracture, bilateral partial facial paresis, respiratory failure, tracheostomy, and oral incompetence. Tissue loss had also caused vision loss and hearing impairment. In July 2018, Joseph DiMeo was in a car accident that changed the course of his life. A Pioneering Surgery Mr. DiMeo underwent approximately 20 reconstructive surgeries, yet still suffered extensive physical deficits, such as amputated fingertips, lips, and eyelids, and severe facial scarring. full face and bilateral forearm transplantation took approximately 23 hours and involved a team of more than 140 healthcare professionals, led by The combined full face and double hand transplant procedure was performed by Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD, DDS, chair of the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery, and the Helen L. Kimmel Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery, in August 2020. Extensive Hospital Stays Post-surgery, Mr. DiMeo spent five weeks in intensive care before being able to see his face for the first time. Dr. Rodriguez continued to monitor his progress and the many nerve and tissue grafts. Mr. DiMeo then remained inpatient at under the direction of Jeffrey M. Cohen, MD Mr. DiMeo spent five weeks in intensive care before being able to see his reconstructed face for the first time. Intensive Rehabilitation Program Rehabilitation demands extended far beyond face transplant to include new hand-based orthoses and exercises to improve hand and grip strength. The nursing team educated Mr. DiMeo on the importance of daily standing and walking, plus passive stretching to prevent contractures. Therapists also performed tissue massage to help remodel scar tissue on his forearms, hands, shoulders, and neck. Joe DiMeo’s rehabilitation protocols were created by physical and occupational therapists at NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation. Hand Therapy and Fine Motor Dexterity Prior to rehabilitation, Mr. DiMeo’s serial opposition, or his ability to touch digits 2 through 5 to the tip of his thumb, was significantly impaired. After extensive work on his fine motor dexterity, his grip strength markedly improved, allowing him to complete fine motor tasks independently, such as the ability to pick up a utensil. April D. O’Connell, OT/L, clinical specialist for hand and upper extremity rehabilitation, designed a unique hand therapy protocol with the goal of getting Mr. DiMeo back to the activities of everyday life. Podcast: Rusk Insights on Rehabilitation Medicine Hear experts from NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation and other leaders from across the rehabilitation field discuss the latest in research, treatment options, and other timely topics on the Rusk Insights on Rehabilitation Medicine podcast. Search “Rusk” on the Podcast app (Apple devices) or Stitcher (Android devices) to find the podcast and subscribe. Subscribe for Updates in Rehabilitation Robotic Tracheal Resection Treats an 11-Year-Old’s Rare Tumor For a salivary gland tumor uncommon in children, close pediatric and adult collaboration enables “a very elegant procedure.” Aligning Critical Care Expertise to Treat an Adolescent’s Rare Pulmonary Embolism Management of life-threatening clots combines pediatric ECMO and a novel mechanical thrombectomy approach. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Ranked #1 (tied) in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Global Destination for robotic thoracic surgery training Top Rated in COPD, Lung Cancer Surgery, and Pneumonia* *High performing in USNWR procedures and conditions Aligning Critical Care Expertise to Treat an Adolescent’s Rare Pulmonary Embolism Emergent Imaging Identifies Source of Cardiopulmonary Symptoms Imaging pinpoints the location of the pulmonary emboli. After experiencing chest pain, the patient was initially monitored by a local cardiologist via continuous electrocardiogram until the embolism was diagnosed emergently after the patient lost consciousness at home. A CT scan reveals a pulmonary embolism in the right and left main pulmonary arteries where they branch into the lungs. Further Imaging Supports Mechanical Thrombectomy Approach An angiogram of the lungs revealed pulmonary artery filling defects, resulting in near-total, flow-limiting occlusion to both lungs. With thrombolytic treatment contraindicated, mechanical thrombectomy was elected. A pulmonary angiogram reveals a large filling defect in the right and left main pulmonary arteries, limiting blood flow to the lungs. Successful Intervention Restores Circulation and Stabilizes Patient Further angiography following mechanical thrombectomy demonstrated returned flow through the lungs, confirming the procedure successfully resolved the blocked pulmonary arteries and restored circulation. A pulmonary angiogram of the left lung (a) before and (b) after mechanical thrombectomy. Subscribe for Updates in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Medical Dermatology Services Medical dermatologists at NYU Langone specialize in treating a wide range of conditions that affect the skin, nails, mucous membranes, and hair. Our patients are referred to us by other dermatologists and from around the world because of our expertise in both complex and routine dermatologic conditions. Our experts use advanced technology to diagnose and treat a variety of dermatologic conditions for adults and children. Our doctors partner with you to understand your symptoms in order to make an accurate diagnosis. We provide dermatologic care to adults of all ages, and to children through our In our state-of-the-art dermatology suites, our doctors use advanced technology that allows them to perform procedures at any of our convenient locations. Our dermatologists are also actively involved in scientific research, which gives them access to groundbreaking treatments for a variety of conditions. Our Medical Dermatology Specialties NYU Langone dermatologists specialize in treating a variety of conditions affecting the skin, including the following: allergic and contact dermatitis basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma , and rarer skin cancers , including hemangiomas and moles connective tissue diseases, including , rashes, and environmental and occupational skin disorders and urticaria pigmented skin lesions, such as moles and atypical nevi nail disorders skin infections and other pigmentation disorders fungal infections warts Our Medical Dermatology Team Our dermatologists have vast experience treating a broad range of skin conditions, and work together to provide compassionate, individualized care. Amy K. Bieber, MD Roger Ho, MD, MPH Efe E. Kakpovbia, MD Mario Lacouture, MD Onco-Dermatology Jo-Ann M. Latkowski, MD Jackleen S. Marji, MD, PhD Arielle R. Nagler, MD Dermatology, Cosmetic Dermatology Peter E. O'Neill, MD Miriam K. Pomeranz, MD Deborah Porges, MD Erin Schoor, MD Louis J. Siegel, D.O. Ian W. Tattersall, MD, PhD Jason G. Weed, MD Nicole Weiler, MD Julie H. Wu, MD John G. Zampella, MD Presenters at the 2024 ACC Scientific Sessions See the NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons joining international colleagues in Atlanta, April 6 to 8. Explore Cardiology Explore Heart Surgery A Leader in Cardiology and Heart Surgery in Heart & Vascular One-year heart transplant survival rate 5,000+ Transcatheter Aortic Valves (TAVRs) MINOCA: Precise Diagnosis is Crucial for Women with Heart Attack Dr. Harmony G. Reynolds and a research team are proving that OCT and cardiac MRI and can clarify why many women have heart attacks without coronary artery narrowing. Read the interview. Subscribe for Updates in Cardiology & Heart Surgery Two Factors Help Predict Hungry Bone Syndrome Simple scoring system may help prevent or mitigate risk of hungry bone syndrome after parathyroidectomy. Illustrating for Clearer Communication in Medicine Drawing on a background in fine art, Dr. Michael Natter advocates for the many benefits of art in medicine. Early Time-Restricted Feeding Improves Metabolic Outcomes Study finds eating meals earlier may help prevent diabetes and reduce glycemic variability. A Leader in Diabetes & Endocrinology in Diabetes & Endocrinology for Diabetes Care* AHA Research Network AHA Strategically Focused Research Network for Cardiometabolic Health Subscribe for Updates in Diabetes & Endocrinology Center for Amputation Reconstruction Team The care team at the offers support and treatment for people experiencing phantom limb sensation, neuroma pain, and pain and discomfort resulting from ill-fitting prostheses. Jacques H. Hacquebord, MD Hand & Wrist Surgery, Orthoplastic Surgery Dr. Hacquebord is a board-certified orthopedic surgeon and accomplished microsurgeon with extensive experience in flap and free-tissue reconstruction of the upper and lower extremity. He holds dual appointments as assistant professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery as well as the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery at NYU Langone. He is also co-chief of the Hand Surgery Service at NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. Omri B. Ayalon, MD Dr. Ayalon is a board-certified orthopedic surgeon specializing in surgery of the hand, wrist, elbow, and shoulder with emphasis on nerve surgery, reconstructive procedures, and trauma. He is an assistant clinical professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. Prosthetists YoniDiamond, CPO Mr. Diamond first became interested in the field of prosthetics and helping to restore people’s function and confidence during his service in the Peace Corps. He specializes in bracing and prosthetics and enjoys helping patients achieve their goals and regain their confidence. LauraKatzenberger, CP, LP Ms. Katzenberger helps patients who need upper limb prosthetics, working with a wide range of upper limb prosthetic components. She believes in an integrated, multidisciplinary approach that includes the prosthetist, occupational therapist, and technicians so patients receive customized care. She also helps educate therapists, physicians, and case managers about the effect that successfully created upper limb prosthetics can have on the lives of patients. Tom Passero, CP Mr. Passero had his leg amputated below the knee in 1974, an experience that inspired him to become a prosthetist. His focus in on advanced prosthetic technologies, such as microprocessor-controlled knees and bionic hands and fingers for people with unique upper limb prosthetic needs. He also leads discussions on upper limb prostheses with surgeons, physiatrists, occupational and physical hand therapists, and case managers. John Rheinstein, CP, FAAOP(D) Mr. Rheinstein is a board-certified prosthetist whose focus is restoring gait and grasp function in patients with limb loss. He specializes in complex upper and lower limb prosthetics and provides immediate postoperative care. He divides his time between providing care for people who need prosthetic devices and researching and testing new products. He also presents at academic conferences, teaches continuing education courses, publishes in textbooks and professional journals, and trains prosthetic residents. WR WendyRazzi Ms. Razzi is clinical coordinator at the Center for Amputation Reconstruction. She was born and raised in New York City and has been working in orthopedic surgery for 10 years. She is passionate about assisting in providing excellent patient care. In her spare time, she enjoys long-distance running, hiking, and fishing. We have doctors located throughout the New York City area. Our internationally recognized team of experts in NYU Langone’s Liver Care and Transplant Program works together to provide state-of-the-art diagnosis, advanced treatment, and care for individuals who have liver disease. As part of the program, our liver specialists—called hepatologists—collaborate closely with our liver surgeons, liver transplant surgeons, interventional radiologists, medical oncologists, nutritionists, and other specialists to ensure that you receive the very best in personalized, advanced care, which is provided in a coordinated and compassionate manner. Our experts also work closely with specialists from NYU Langone’s for people who need treatment for liver cancer. Types of Liver Diseases The term liver disease refers to a number of conditions that can include: cirrhosis fibrosis non-alcoholic steatohepatitis State-of-the-Art Liver Tests and Procedures People who have liver disease need highly specialized, coordinated, and personalized care. Our NYU Langone liver specialists offer the most advanced diagnostic tests and endoscopic and surgical procedures, including: endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) liver biopsy liver surgery liver transplantation surgery paracentesis radioembolization transarterial chemoembolization transient elastography (FibroScan) transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) upper endoscopy with band ligation In addition to these tests and procedures, we offer advanced medical therapies for all liver conditions. For patients in need of a , our transplant hepatologists, transplant surgeons, and other specialists at NYU Langone's Transplant Institute provide care from initial referral through treatment and recovery. Our modern facilities include state-of-the-art testing sites, dedicated inpatient surgical and intensive care units, and outpatient physician offices. Our liver experts provide involving screening, prevention, and treatment for people with cirrhosis, hepatitis, liver cancer, and other liver conditions. These research efforts not only offer investigative new treatment options for our patients, but also contribute to advancements in science that will lead to improved treatment and care for future patients. To make an appointment with one of our gastroenterologists or hepatologists for treatment of liver disease, please call 212-263-3643. To schedule an evaluation for liver transplant, please call 212-263-8133. Our internationally recognized team of liver specialists works together to provide state-of-the-art diagnosis, advanced treatment, and compassionate care for people who have liver disease. Lung & Liver Transplant Surgery Gives Dad Back a Normal Life Renowned Specialists Expand Liver Disease Programs NYU Langone’s Lupus Center provides patients with access to expert doctors and focused researchers. We use the most advanced diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for autoimmune diseases, often based on our experts’ own research findings. The center puts special emphasis on autoimmune disease as it affects pregnancy and on clinical trials for new treatments that may decrease overactive immune cells, reduce pathogenic autoantibodies that attack healthy tissue, and identify biomarkers that predict flare-ups and a patient’s response to therapy. Our rheumatologists are experts at diagnosing and treating patients with lupus. Pulmonary Intervention for Airway Conditions Interventional pulmonologists at NYU Langone’s Tracheal and Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program work with thoracic surgeons and head and neck surgeons to diagnose and manage airway conditions. These conditions include tracheobronchomalacia (TBM), tracheal stenosis, tracheoesophageal fistula, and tracheal or bronchial tumors, which can be noncancerous or cancerous, including carcinoid tumors. Our interventional pulmonologists specialize in bronchoscopy to evaluate, diagnose, and treat airway conditions. During bronchoscopy, a long, flexible tube with a camera on its end is placed through the mouth and into the trachea and bronchi. Interventional pulmonologists may also use a rigid bronchoscope to evaluate the airways and perform therapeutic interventions. The bronchoscope helps the care team view tissue in the airways, biopsy tissue, and perform minimally invasive treatments that do not require incisions or surgery. Advanced Diagnostic Tests To diagnose airway conditions, interventional pulmonologists use the following specialized tools and tests: a rigid bronchoscope with a beveled edge, which allows doctors to remove deeper tissue samples than flexible bronchoscopy and to place stents to keep the airway open, helping to assess whether surgery is a treatment option endobronchial ultrasound, which uses an ultrasound device to assess whether a tumor is growing into the many layers of the airway robotic bronchoscopy, during which an ultrathin scope using a precise navigation system finds and biopsies lesions deep in the airways narrow-band imaging or autofluorescence—imaging techniques that enhance the view of the tracheal and bronchial lining and help determine whether tumor tissue is present Pathologists evaluate tissue samples taken for biopsy to determine whether tumors are cancerous or benign. If a tumor is cancerous, our doctors may collaborate with specialists at NYU Langone to create your care plan. Interventional Approaches to Care Our interventional pulmonologists treat airway conditions in several different ways. These approaches, delivered through a bronchoscope, include the following: thermal therapy, which uses intense cold or heat to destroy tracheal or bronchial tissue that may be obstructing the airway steroid injections or topical mitomycin, a type of chemotherapy used to decrease tissue inflammation or growth that can be associated with tracheal stenosis endoscopic stent placement to seal a tracheoesophageal fistula or to open the airway in people who have tracheal stenosis or TBM; if a stent improves symptoms of TBM, surgery may be the next step in treatment photodynamic therapy, which uses lasers to destroy tumor cells after medication has made them sensitive to light Our doctors may also recommend continuous positive airway pressure therapy, commonly known as CPAP, which uses pressurized air to hold the airways open to manage some cases of TBM. If an interventional pulmonary procedure is not the best treatment option for managing an airway condition, our doctors may discuss the possibility of airway surgery with you. 212-598-2374 VEXAS Syndrome Care Program At NYU Langone’s Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program, the geneticists, rheumatologists, and certified genetic counselors on our team care for adults and children with autoinflammatory conditions whose symptoms are severe or whose cause is unknown. We use both genetic testing and research-based analysis to identify the underlying genetic causes of these conditions. Using this information, we work to provide the most-advanced targeted therapies, counseling about how the condition may develop and change over time, as well as risk assessment for other family members. Our team specializes in autoinflammatory conditions in which inflammation recurs without clear signs of infection, autoimmune disease, or cancer, including the following: VEXAS syndrome, a rare but serious condition that can cause unexplained symptoms throughout the body, such as fever and fatigue, painful skin rashes, pain and swelling of the ears and nose, coughing or shortness of breath, and Learn more about how we care for people with VEXAS syndrome periodic fever syndromes, which are conditions characterized by recurring fevers not caused by an infection severe, unexplained inflammation that causes symptoms in the bone marrow, lungs, cartilage, or skin Our experts evaluate the underlying genetic cause of autoimmune diseases with the goal of improving care for children and adults If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please call us at View All Locations (5) Interventional radiologists at NYU Langone are leaders in the use of minimally invasive surgical techniques that provide patients with an alternative to open surgery. This approach allows complex procedures to be performed in the arteries, veins, and almost every organ in the body. Our interventional radiologists are experts in minimally invasive surgical techniques. How Interventional Radiology Works Interventional radiologists are doctors who use X-ray, fluoroscopy, ultrasound, or CT scan imaging technology to guide small, specialized instruments through the body, allowing them to treat a wide variety of conditions affecting the blood vessels and organs. The techniques allow targeted therapies and procedures to be done quickly and safely, resulting in less discomfort, quicker recovery, and better results compared to open procedures. At NYU Langone, our physician team of interventional radiologists is supported by a group of specialized nurses and technologists. Interventional Radiology Treatments The list of medical conditions that can be treated by interventional radiology is constantly growing. Interventional radiology procedures can be used to treat cancer and improve blood circulation, among other things. Our interventional radiologists provide the following treatments: intra-arterial therapies including transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) and Y90 radioembolization to treat thermal ablation to treat non-small cell lung cancer, , and soft tissue cancers balloon angioplasty, atherectomy, and stenting to treat limb salvage procedures to treat critical limb ischemia, which causes chronic foot pain or ulcers that do not heal balloon angioplasty and stenting to treat chronic venous disease inferior vena cava filter and catheter-directed thrombolysis to treat catheter-directed thrombolysis to treat by delivering clot-busting medicine directly to the clot prostate artery embolization to treat urinary symptoms related to embolization to treat gonadal vein embolization to treat varicoceles in men and in women Our doctors are board-certified specialists in interventional radiology. Frederic J. Bertino Hillel B. Bryk Beatriz Escobar RH Ryan M. Hickey Jason C. Hoffmann Vinay N. Kikkeri Shu Liu UL Umair Lodhi Anuj Malhotra Amir Noor Vikram Rajpurohit Mikhail Silk Our Locations (5) NYU Langone Interventional Radiology—Mineola 222 Station Plaza, Suite 140, Mineola, NY, 11501 Blood Conservation Techniques & Tools Through a team-based approach, experts at NYU Langone’s work closely across a range of specialties, including the following: allergy and anesthesiology and and endocrinology cardiology and dermatology and endovascular surgery and vascular surgery maternal fetal medicine oncology and hematology internal medicine and critical care neurology and and pulmonary medicine We choose the patient blood management techniques and tools that are right for you based on your needs, beliefs, and preferences, both before and during surgery. Aquamantys System The Aquamantys® System includes a generator and bipolar sealers that use radiofrequency energy and saline to seal soft tissue and bone, during or after surgery. This device helps to control bleeding and can be used during different types of surgeries. Argon Beam Coagulator An argon beam coagulator helps to control bleeding during surgery. An electric current is passed through a beam of argon gas and directed at the bleeding tissue to help blood quickly coagulate, or clot. Blood Salvage Techniques Our blood salvage, or cell salvage, techniques include the use of a device called the Cell Saver® that involves collecting lost blood, filtering it, and recycling it so it can be reinfused back into the body. This is generally used during or after surgical procedures in which a significant amount of blood loss is expected, eliminating the need for a blood transfusion. Electrocautery Electrocautery is a process in which a metal wire electrode generates heat to quickly seal blood vessels and reduce or stop bleeding during surgery or after an injury. Harmonic Scalpel Unlike a regular scalpel that is used to cut tissues during surgery, a harmonic scalpel uses ultrasound technology to cut and seal at the same time, causing blood to clot almost immediately. This reduces blood loss during surgery. Heart–Lung Machine A heart–lung machine is used during heart surgery to recirculate and oxygenate the patient’s own blood before directing it back into the body, reducing the need for blood transfusions. Hemodilution and Volume Expanders Hemodilution is a blood conservation technique that dilutes blood before surgery using intravenous (IV) fluids, or volume expanders, helping to minimize blood loss. Acute normovolemic hemodilution involves removing some of the blood just before dilution and returning it after the surgical procedure is completed. Medications to Conserve Blood We also use medications that help conserve blood and minimize blood loss during surgery. These include hemostatic drugs that help improve blood clotting, and synthetic erythropoietin, which stimulates the bone marrow to produce enough red blood cells to avoid transfusion. Minimally Invasive Surgery Techniques Our surgeons are experts in minimally invasive robotic surgery, using the da Vinci® Si and da Vinci® Xi surgical robots, which allows us to make smaller incisions that minimize blood loss. SpHb Noninvasive Hemoglobin Monitor The SpHb® hemoglobin monitor is a noninvasive device that provides continuous information about changes in hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that transports oxygen throughout the body. With this device, our surgeons receive real-time data that can help reduce the number of times we need to draw blood. VAMP System The VAMP™ system helps reduce blood loss when surgeons are taking blood samples during surgery. Typically, the blood that has been sampled and checked needs to be discarded. This closed system allows the sample that would have be wasted to be returned to the patient. Placenta Accreta Program Bolsters Comprehensive Maternal & Perinatal Care Rebecca H. Jessel, MD, and Fady Khoury Collado, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Addressing the risk associated with placenta accreta requires early imaging-based diagnosis and comprehensive, highly coordinated care. NYU Langone’s new program emphasizes the collaboration and evidence-based tools needed to plan for expected deliveries as well as medical emergencies. Program co-directors also plan to pursue research and postdelivery uterine preservation to improve patient outcomes. On a Saturday afternoon several weeks before her due date, a pregnant woman with a history of two prior cesarean sections was rushed to NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn with heavy bleeding. She’d previously received a diagnosis of placenta accreta spectrum (PAS) disorder from maternal–fetal medicine specialist Shilpi S. Mehta-Lee, MD , after imaging revealed a placenta previa and evidence of placental vessels within her uterus and her bladder. In patients with PAS, attempting to separate the placenta from the wall of the uterus can trigger massive and life-threatening hemorrhage. In this case, the prenatal bleeding that prompted the patient’s presentation to the hospital was likely due to the dilatation of her cervix from premature labor, exposing the placental bed in the setting of the placenta previa. The multidisciplinary care team, including Lindsey Buchin, MD Rebecca H. Jessel, MD Brian D. Taussig, MD , quickly mobilized and helped deliver a premature but healthy baby via cesarean section. Gynecologic oncologist Fady Khoury Collado, MD , was then able to safely perform a complicated hysterectomy, removing the uterus and the placenta while preserving the integrity of the patient’s bladder despite placental invasion. The resolution of this complex case exemplifies the systematic approach to imaging, early diagnosis, and coordinated care offered by NYU Langone’s new Placenta Accreta Diagnosis and Treatment Program. “We’re giving every physician who’s practicing maternal–fetal medicine the tools by which to identify this disease early on, and then make a plan for a safe delivery.” “Through this program, we’re giving every physician who’s practicing maternal–fetal medicine the tools by which to identify this disease early on, and then make a plan for a safe delivery,” says Dr. Mehta-Lee. “It’s really a quality initiative from the get-go.” From Early Diagnosis to Coordinated Care One of the biggest risk factors for PAS is a history of cesarean sections. For women like the presenting patient, with placenta previa and a history of two prior cesareans, the risk of placenta accreta is as high as 40 percent . “With an estimated incidence of 1 in every 272 pregnancies , we’re seeing an exponential rise in the condition, tracking with the rising rate of C-sections,” says Dr. Jessel. Building on NYU Langone’s long-standing success in maternal and perinatal care, the new program aims to not only boost early diagnosis for PAS and strengthen the necessary care coordination across multiple specialties, but also improve long-term health outcomes. “We have a top-notch multidisciplinary team with the experience and expertise to handle patient referrals for what can be an exceedingly complicated and high-risk condition,” says Dr. Khoury Collado, who with Dr. Jessel serves as a program co-director. “We have the experience and expertise to handle patient referrals for what can be an exceedingly complicated and high-risk condition.” A central focus of the program is on educating and training staff, including the maternal–fetal medicine team and ultrasound technologists, on evidence-based diagnostic and treatment protocols. Early imaging and diagnosis, in turn, allow for two comprehensive care plans: one based on everything proceeding as expected, and a second that accounts for various what-if scenarios, says Dr. Mehta-Lee. “You always have both. But without identification, we can’t save women’s lives,” she says. To manage PAS, doctors generally deliver the baby via a planned C-section, being careful not to disrupt the placenta. They leave the placenta attached to the uterus and then remove it and the entire uterus together via a hysterectomy. “Despite that, it’s still considered a high-risk surgery with a high risk of bleeding, requiring several teams to work together,” says Dr. Khoury Collado. The new program is helping to bolster that essential coordination of prenatal care and surgical planning leading up to the day of delivery. At NYU Langone, multidisciplinary care for patients with PAS routinely involves neonatologists, an experienced nursing team, maternal–fetal medicine specialists, obstetrical anesthesiologists, gynecological oncologists, interventional radiologists, urologists, and the blood bank. “It really does take a village,” Dr. Jessel says. A Launchpad for Improving Outcomes Initial sites for the program include NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and Tisch Hospital in Manhattan, with plans for expansion across NYU Langone. As a trauma center, NYU Langone—Brooklyn has ready access to blood supplies and trauma surgeons, Dr. Mehta-Lee emphasizes, allowing it to offer emergency PAS care to a highly diverse patient population. The new program is designed to assess the care team’s needs and ensure rapid, reliable access to these trauma tools and services. “We want to develop a systematic approach to imaging and early diagnosis, and a launchpad to help push the field forward.” As a long-term goal, Dr. Khoury Collado hopes to further improve patient outcomes by increasing the potential for uterine preservation. “Removing the uterus has a lot of psychological and physical health–related consequences. Avoiding that removal is a goal we think we can achieve in some cases,” he says. In the meantime, the co-directors plan to incorporate an academic research arm to better understand and characterize the disorder. From the clinical side, they hope to involve NYU Langone’s mental health services and a community health worker or patient navigator to guide patients through the complicated diagnosis and multistep care process. “We want to develop a systematic approach to imaging and early diagnosis, and a launchpad to help push the field forward,” Dr. Jessel says. Maternal-Fetal Medicine Rebecca H. Jessel, MD, is a member of the faculty in obstetrics and gynecology and co-director of the Placenta Accreta Diagnosis and Treatment Program. She specializes in placental development and function and in treating preeclampsia and placenta accreta spectrum. Fady Khoury Collado, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology, section chief of Gynecologic Oncology at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and co-director of the Placenta Accreta Diagnosis and Treatment Program. He specializes in treating gynecologic cancers and placenta accreta spectrum. Shilpi S. Mehta-Lee, MD, is clinical associate professor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at NYU Langone Health, and site director for the Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn. She is a National Institutes of Health-funded clinical investigator for the National Environmental Children’s Health Outcomes study, which seeks to investigate the effects of environmental exposures on childhood health outcomes. Providing an Inclusive Path to Pregnancy Justin S. Brandt, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health. Justin S. Brandt, MD Division of Maternal–Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Health, is a national leader in advancing obstetric care that supports individuals with diverse gender identities. He previously served on the Diversity and Inclusion in the Workforce Committee for the Society of Maternal and Fetal Medicine, developing guidelines and shaping best practices for inclusive care. Here, Dr. Brandt shares insights from his years of experience supporting transgender and gender-diverse patients through pregnancy. A Call to Do Better What put you on the path of working with transgender and gender-diverse patients? Dr. Brandt: Raising a child who is gender diverse opened my eyes to some of the challenges faced by people who are not cisgender. As an obstetrician and maternal–fetal medicine subspecialist, I realized that there are even more challenges in front of transgender men and gender-diverse people during pregnancy. Pregnancy tends to be a very gendered process, but it doesn’t have to be. I realized that most of the care I was providing was focused on cisgender and heterosexual people. As a result of often-incorrect assumptions, I was not creating a welcoming environment for other people with birthing potential. As I learned more about the unique needs of transgender and gender-diverse people, I knew I could do better. I knew that my field of medicine could do better. And I’ve been motivated to work towards this goal—of providing affirming care for all people—for the last 10 years. Defining Affirming Care What does affirming pregnancy care look like for transgender and gender-diverse people? So much of the care that we provide for people who have diverse gender identities in pregnancy is the same as the care we provide to cisgender people. However, there are important differences too. So many people with diverse identities have had negative experiences in a traditional healthcare setting. As a result, many do not want to come to our offices for care. At NYU Langone, we are working to change that. We have worked to ensure that every member of our team is equipped to care for people with diverse identities. Through trainings, as well as changes in our physical practice, we are creating clinical spaces that are more welcoming. “Affirming care is care that responds to an individual’s unique needs and desires.” Affirming care is care that responds to an individual’s unique needs and desires. If someone is going to be pregnant and feels like a father or some other nonmother identity, we want to affirm their unique identity during pregnancy. Communication Is Critical When it comes to obstetric care, how can healthcare providers foster a welcoming and inclusive environment? In order to create an inclusive environment, we have to listen to our patients. When patients speak about their prior experiences and their goals for pregnancies, we must listen. This is how we develop care plans that are unique for each person. We then take those care plans and follow them—from the outpatient setting, where prenatal care starts, to labor and delivery, and ultimately to our postpartum floor, which we inclusively call the family care suite Another part of building an inclusive environment is making sure that people know that we want to care for all people at NYU Langone. Our clinical team at and across our health system has the skills and the desire to care for everyone who can get pregnant. Gender identity is a very personal topic; patients may find it hard to share their pregnancy care needs. As a provider, how do you create space for patients to discuss their desires during pregnancy? I think communication is key here. It’s so critical that patients have the experiences that they’re looking for, experiences that affirm their unique identities. But providers can’t know a patient’s goals or desires for pregnancy if there isn’t open communication. I’m often encouraging patients to talk with me—and their other doctors—about what they’re looking for in their birthing experience. “I know this can be hard for many. But I also know that we can find ways to allow people to be their true selves during pregnancy.” A man who is transgender may have spent much of his life moving away from the gender associated with the sex he was assigned at birth. For some people, being pregnant or just coming to the obstetrician can be triggering. As an affirming provider, I know this can be hard for many. But I also know that we can find ways to allow people to be their true selves during pregnancy. The Impact on Patients Can you share an example of a compassionate and inclusive interaction with a patient where the approach noticeably improved the patient’s care and overall experience? I just recently cared for someone with a nonbinary identity. The patient told me about their challenges trying to get pregnant and navigating doctors who didn’t understand them. I built trust in small ways—I asked questions about their gender identity, their pronouns, and their goals. At the end of the meeting, the patient told me that they felt heard for the first time in a doctor’s office. They didn’t think it was possible to have this type of experience with doctors. It was one of the first times in this person’s life that a healthcare provider had the knowledge to care for their unique needs and to help them achieve the healthcare experience that they were looking for. It was a very rewarding experience for me and one that I look forward to sharing with other patients as well. A Commitment to Inclusivity What are we not currently addressing that could make obstetrics and gynecology a more inclusive space? Obstetrics and the birthing process can be highly gendered. I think one of the great obstacles for us as obstetricians is making people who don’t identify as women feel comfortable coming to us for care. This means changing the way we engage with patients at the front desk. This means changing the way we engage with patients when we provide care. This means providing care that allows people with nonbinary identities to have a birthing experience that affirms their identities. “One of the great obstacles for us as obstetricians is making people who don’t identify as women but who have the potential to get pregnant feel comfortable coming to us for care.” NYU Langone has one of the best medical schools in the country, and we’re teaching the next generation of physicians how to provide affirming care, how to show respect for patients with diverse needs, and how to provide world-class care for all people. I am honored to be part of this academic team. Another area that comes to mind is research. Traditional research has focused on people with binary identities—women and men. There’s a lot of research looking at obstetrical outcomes of women with various risk factors for pregnancy complications. This type of research has excluded people with nonbinary identities who get pregnant. The obstetric research community is starting to realize how to perform research that captures all people with birthing potential. In time, and with the adoption of inclusive research practices, we will be able to provide better care for all people and to address the unique needs of people with birthing potential who are women, men, and other identities. Justin S. Brandt, MD, is director of the Division of Maternal–Fetal Medicine. His research interests include bibliometrics, inclusive best practices, obstetric ultrasound, and maternal and fetal complications. Making Clinical Excellence Your North Star Dr. Jonathan Gerber on the path to leadership, his swift pivot during COVID, and his priorities as a chief clinical officer. Reducing the Burden of Cancer Surgery Division director Dr. Gary Deutsch shares his vision for elevating cancer care on Long Island. Ramping Up Research for Metastatic Cancers Radiation oncologist Dr. Jonathan Yang discusses the latest developments in metastatic disease and CNS malignancies. Leading the Way in Breast Surgical Oncology Acclaimed breast surgeon Dr. Mary Gemignani discusses her approach to leadership, education, and holistic care. Enhancing the Hospital Experience with Midwifery Care Eugenia Montesinos, CNM. Source: NYU Langone Health. Midwives’ natural approach to care was the most prevalent method to childbirth until the 18th century, when clinical institutions began challenging their approach. They regained their strength in the 1960s, during the consumer childbirth revolution, and continue to fulfill an important role in women’s healthcare. Research shows that outcomes improve for parents and their babies when they have access to midwifery care, including reduced rates of preterm birth, low birth weight, cesarean birth, and neonatal death. To address growing demand, the division of midwifery services is rapidly ramping up throughout NYU Langone Health’s Brooklyn and Manhattan campuses. Here, Eugenia Montesinos, CNM, discusses her new role as director of . She also highlights the importance of having the midwifery option for pregnant patients and the impact on maternal outcomes. Offering Pregnant Patients Another Option You are NYU Langone’s first director of midwifery services. What is your new role, and why has this position been created? Montesinos: I will be overseeing the hospital-based midwifery program at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, leading a team of seven board-certified midwives (both certified nurse midwives, CNMs, and certified midwives, CMs). We will cover labor and delivery in the hospital 24/7, seven days per week. As midwives, which means “with woman,” we advocate for physiological birth whenever possible and the judicious use of intervention only when medically necessary. We offer holistic support, empowering women to make informed choices while ensuring their physical, emotional, and social needs are met through every step of this transformative journey. As in-house care providers, we care for low-risk pregnant patients with a completely holistic approach. For high-risk patients seeking care from a midwife, we provide co-managed, collaborative care in partnership with our physician team, including general obstetricians and maternal–fetal medicine physicians. Andrew F. Rubenstein, MD , director of the Division of General Obstetrics and Gynecology, saw the necessity to provide hospital-based midwifery care. More women are starting to know what midwifery is, and they’re asking for it. My role was created because we wanted to offer the option to low-risk pregnant patients. “More women are starting to know what midwifery is, and they’re asking for it. We wanted to offer that option to low-risk pregnant patients.” Eugenia Montesinos, CNM Patients Seek a Trusted Confidant What do patients tell you they want and need from midwifery care? Montesinos Midwifery care emphasizes pregnancy as a natural physiologic process, and women are driving the demand of this kind of care. What truly defines midwifery care is the individualized approach. Midwives are more than providers. We are supporters, confidants, and advocates for the women we serve. Women tell us they want the personalized labor and delivery approach we provide, but they also like knowing an obstetrician team is available in the hospital in case they need medical intervention. Support Through Pregnancy and Beyond How will these services fit in with the broader OB/GYN healthcare structure? In addition to managing labor and deliveries at Tisch Hospital in collaboration with the OB/GYN team, we provide routine obstetric and gynecologic care to women at the . Midwives can provide prenatal care and conduct wellness visits and pelvic exams, diagnose and treat gynecologic conditions, and provide contraception and preventive care and screenings through all phases of life, from adolescence to the postreproductive years. Expanding Exemplary Maternal Care What are your top priorities for your role and the department? I aspire to set new standards of excellence in care. I envision NYU Langone as a beacon of exemplary maternal care, where each woman receives compassionate, evidence-based, and culturally sensitive care tailored to her unique journey. “I envision NYU Langone as a beacon of exemplary maternal care, where each woman receives compassionate, evidence-based, and culturally sensitive care tailored to her unique journey.” As midwives, we strive to empower and nurture women through one of life’s most significant experiences, ensuring they feel supported, informed, and cherished every step of the way. My top priority is to provide the midwifery care model to every woman seeking this form of care and to introduce this model to those seeking alternative options, such as first-time mothers and mothers seeking care after a cesarean birth. Midwifery, Obstetrics and Gynecology Eugenia Montesinos, CNM, is the director of midwifery services at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital. She has provided midwifery care for over 23 years in private practices and hospitals across various New York City boroughs, including NYC Health + Hospitals, the largest municipal healthcare delivery system in the United States. RFA Emerges as New Tool For Thyroid Tumors The minimally invasive approach offers a promising, nonsurgical alternative for benign and cancerous nodules. PHOTO: Getty Images In use for over a decade in Europe and Asia, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) was FDA approved in 2018 for treatment of soft tissue tumors, paving the way for use in the thyroid. In the thyroid, it is most commonly used for benign nodules or nodules that cause hyperthyroidism. Benefits include elimination or reduction of the nodule and associated symptoms, enabling patients to discontinue medications otherwise necessary to control hyperthyroidism, via a minimally invasive outpatient procedure typically performed in under an hour. Additionally, there is accumulating evidence supporting RFA’s efficacy for small intrathyroidal cancers that otherwise would be treated with surgery, says , a professor of medicine in endocrinology. Both Dr. Hodak and , chief of the Division of Endocrine Surgery, are founding members of the North American Society for Interventional Thyroidology, a newly established group advocating for the use and evolution of such minimally invasive methods as RFA. “We’re just beginning to realize how RFA can be applied to transform outcomes in complex thyroid tumor cases.” “We’re just beginning to realize how RFA can be applied to transform outcomes in complex thyroid tumor cases,” says Dr. Hodak. “It can offer clear benefits as an alternative to standard surgery in appropriately selected patients.” Precisely Targeted Treatment NYU Langone Health is an early adopter of RFA for thyroid tumors, among the first in a growing number of centers offering the approach in and beyond New York. The ablation procedure involves a seven inch needle with an active electrode at the tip used to deliver high-frequency energy. The patient is usually lightly sedated. Using continous ultrasound visualization, the physician positions the needle in the thyroid nodule, where the energy is applied in a targeted manner to destroy tumor tissue without damaging surrounding structures. “The key to success in RFA is being skilled enough to completely destroy the nodule, whether a benign symptomatic nodule, a hyperfunctioning nodule that causes hyperthyroidism, or a small cancer,” says Dr. Patel. “Completeness of treatment is the key to a good outcome.” “Completeness of treatment is the key to a good outcome.” “We use something called the moving shot technique,” notes Dr. Hodak. “This involves repositioning the needle within the nodule with almost stereotactic precision, so that energy is delivered throughout the entire volume of the nodule until most or all of the tumor tissue has been destroyed.” Dr. Hodak and Dr. Patel work in collaboration with Chelsey K. Baldwin, MD . During a procedure, one physician delivers the therapy while another physician and a medical assistant support any needs that arise during treatment. A Promising Option for Complex Cases The team’s first RFA case was a uniquely complex one involving a 60-year-old female patient with thyroid cancer. The patient had near complete vocal cord paralysis and a severely compromised airway. As she was considered high-risk for complete vocal cord paralysis with further surgery, her slow-growing thyroid cancer had been followed without treatment. When the patient developed kidney failure, the active thyroid cancer precluded eligibility for the transplant waitlist. With surgery contraindicated, Dr. Hodak and Dr. Patel recommended RFA. The successful procedure completely extirpated the thyroid cancer and the patient became eligible for a renal transplant. “It was one of the most complicated cases we’ve ever done, and it was the first,” says Dr. Hodak. “Among all patients we’ve ever treated with RFA, it illustrated the power of this approach. RFA allowed the patient to have a life-sustaining kidney transplant.” Dr. Hodaks says that, in general, patients who have RFA report symptomatic improvement within one to two weeks. Incremental tumor reduction is typically as high as 50 percent at six months and 90 percent within one year. Envisioning Future Applications The team expresses confidence that RFA will continue to gain traction for a range of thyroid applications. “RFA is exploding in the U.S. because the need for it is so appreciated,” says Dr. Hodak. “Once the reimbursement is established as we generate more outcomes data, this is going to be commonplace, broadly available and transformative.” Standardizing Care for Children with Disabilities The ICF-CY provides a common language and holistic clinical reasoning framework for interdisciplinary care of children and youth with disabilities. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health. The ICF-CY provides a common language and holistic clinical reasoning framework for interdisciplinary care of children and youth with disabilities. SOURCE: WHO, 2001, 2007. A diagram of the components of the ICF-CY, illustrating how a health condition is comprised of both function and dysfunction with interactions of environmental and personal factors. ADAPTED FROM: WHO, 2001, 2007 A diagram exemplifying the ICF-CY framework applied to pre- and post-amputation care for an adolescent with a rare cancer necessitating limb amputation. ADAPTED FROM: J Pediatr Rehabil Med . 2023 May 8. Over the past several decades, chronic health conditions and disabilities among children and youth have steadily risen . Despite this, the adoption and utilization of interdisciplinary models of rehabilitation care have been slow In 2007, the World Health Organization (WHO) published the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health for Children and Youth (ICF-CY), a biopsychosocial framework for interdisciplinary care of children and adolescents with disabilities. “Even though ICF-CY was published roughly two decades ago and there are evidence-based recommendations in regard to its implementation, it has yet to be fully implemented in medical education and practice within the United States,” says , a clinical associate professor of rehabilitation medicine. “Interdisciplinary adoption of the ICF-CY common language is not only feasible but beneficial for complex pediatric patients.” According to Dr. Sukhov, adherence to WHO principles can help facilitate comprehensive, multidisciplinary rehabilitation care, noting that these principles, when applied correctly, are useful for managing medically complex pediatric patients. His team has published several case reports detailing the successful implementation of the ICF-CY in complex cases, including an 18-year-old with osteosarcoma in the setting of Li-Fraumeni syndrome necessitating amputation, a 14-year-old with congenital heart disease who experienced sudden cardiac arrest, and a 13-year-old with a spinal cord injury as a complication of an aneurysmal bone cyst. In clinical settings, implementation of the model has been shown to optimize child participation, improve quality of life assessments and value-based care delivery systems, and streamline medical management, Dr. Sukhov says. Given prolonged hospitalization, for example, some patients report feeling psychologically drained and a desire to go home to be with their family. However, environmental barriers may preclude safe discharge. By applying the framework, environmental and psychological factors can be prioritized, facilitating patients’ return home, fully functional, both quickly and safely. “Interdisciplinary adoption of the ICF-CY common language is not only feasible but beneficial for complex pediatric patients,” says Dr. Sukhov. For best outcomes, pediatric physiatrists should be consulted as early as possible, and while a physiatrist is likely the most qualified to introduce, implement, and guide the use of ICF principles, Dr. Sukhov explains that they can be tailored and applied by the entire medical team for better patient care. Renat R. Sukhov, MD, is a pediatric physiatrist and a clinical associate professor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine. His research interests center on rehabilitation strategies for children and adolescents with complex injuries. Recipient of a landmark transplant performed up to five hours of rehabilitation daily—and was constantly pushing for more. Intensive Rehabilitation: A Key to Success Following a devastating car accident, 22-year-old Joe DiMeo underwent the world’s first full face and bilateral forearm transplantation, regaining significant improvement in both his function and quality of life. The pioneering surgical team was led by , chair of the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery. Central to Mr. DiMeo’s recovery and success was intensive rehabilitation at the Rusk Rehabilitation inpatient unit , a world-renowned expert in rehabilitation medicine. “The patient underwent several weeks of demanding rehabilitation activities, often up to five hours daily.” “The patient underwent several weeks of demanding rehabilitation activities, often up to five hours daily,” Dr. Cohen says. “For example, he completed therapeutic exercises involving his hands to improve his grip strength, as well as activities designed to improve his fine motor dexterity. Overall, the results were spectacular.” Upon discharge,Mr. DiMeo continued outpatient rehabilitation with NYU Langone Health’s partner organization, myFace , which provides individuals who have craniofacialdeficits with comprehensive care by funding medical, surgical, dental, psychosocial support, travel, and housing. His outpatient rehabilitation included speech therapy Remarkably, Mr. DiMeo experienced significant improvement in several clinical and functional outcomes, including psychological status, vision, grip strength, fine motor dexterity, upper extremity strength, and range of motion, as well as sitting balance and basic self-care skills. “Some of his personal goals were to be able to cook and throw a ball to his dog, both of which he accomplished,” Dr. Cohen says. “He also successfully relearned to smile—the team used imagery of a happy thought, which improved his buccal movement.” This work was supported by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs through the Reconstructive Transplantation Research Award Program under award no. W81XWH-15-2-0036. Opinions, interpretations, conclusions, and recommendations are those of the author and are not necessarily endorsed by the Department of Defense. Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD, DDS, is the Helen L. Kimmel Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery and chair of the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery. He is also director of the Face Transplant Program. Jeffrey M. Cohen, MD, is a clinical professor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine. He is also director of the Cardiopulmonary/Medically Complex Service at Rusk Rehabilitation. Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Critical Presentation Yields Discovery of Life-Threatening Clot A 15-year-old girl with a family history of clotting disorders, a history of hormonal supplementation treatment for irregular menses, and recent complaints of chest pain was diagnosed with a pulmonary embolism in another hospital’s emergency department after the patient lost consciousness at home. Though the care team immediately stabilized the patient with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), they were not equipped to manage ECMO in pediatric patients. , surgical director of NYU Langone Health’s , was contacted to transfer the patient’s care to , where a multidisciplinary team mobilized. “This case was our multidisciplinary system at work.” “We quickly choreographed the specialists, timing, and an operating room’s worth of equipment needed to safely transport this patient to our care,” says Dr. Fisher. The first step was to transfer her from the other hospital’s ECMO circuit to NYU Langone’s mobile ECMO unit. “She had a near complete occlusion of cardiac output,” notes , director of pediatric critical care, so the team carefully titrated medications to keep the patient stable during the transfer, then managed her on the new machine until arriving safely at that Pediatric Intensive Care Unit There, Frederic J. Bertino, MD , director of pediatric interventional radiology, planned endovascular treatment of the emboli. When further imaging revealed blood vessel damage and bleeding from the femoral artery from the initial, emergent ECMO placement—contraindicating thrombolytic treatment—Dr. Bertino elected to apply mechanical thrombectomy. “The nuance was in ensuring we didn’t compete with the suction also created by ECMO circuitry. It required experienced, careful coordination with the perfusionist.” Using the approach, rarely performed in pediatric patients, Dr. Bertino guided a flexible catheter through an incision in the patient’s neck into the pulmonary artery, using a syringe to create suction that removed the clots. “The nuance was in ensuring we didn’t compete with the suction also created by ECMO circuitry, which could introduce air embolism,” explains Dr. Bertino. “It required experienced, careful coordination with the perfusionist.” Following further collaboration with the vascular surgery team to repair the prior vessel injury from the patient’s groin to the retroperitoneal space, the patient stabilized quickly, coming off ECMO within 24 hours of her arrival. “This case was our multidisciplinary system at work—experienced coordination, combining our expertise in pediatric critical care and a novel interventional approach to deliver a good outcome for a critically ill patient,” says Dr. Fisher. Vascular & Interventional Radiology Frederic J. Bertino, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of radiology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and director of pediatric interventional radiology at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. His clinical interests focus on minimally invasive pediatric procedures, adult and pediatric venous thromboembolic disease (PE and DVT), chronic venous occlusion, vascular malformations, and lymphatic disorders. Arun Chopra, MD, is an associate professor of pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and director of the division of pediatric critical care at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. His clinical interests focus on extracorporeal circuits and pharmacokinetics of therapeutic medications. Jason C. Fisher, MD, is a pediatric surgeon, director of children’s surgical services for Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, and director of the Division of Pediatric Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. He conducts clinical research focused on congenital diaphragmatic hernia and pediatric ECMO. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AANS Annual Scientific Meeting See the neurosurgeons from NYU Langone Health who joined international colleagues in Chicago, May 3 to 6. Building an Automated Registry of Spine Surgery Combining natural language processing with EHR data allowed researchers to automate a clinical registry for spine surgery. Testing a New Embolic Material for Chronic Subdural Hematoma Study offers a long-term view of middle meningeal artery embolization for chronic subdural hematoma. Robotic Tracheal Resection Treats an 11-Year-Old’s Rare Tumor Jason C. Fisher, MD, and Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, MBA Seamless collaboration between pediatric specialists at and adult providers at NYU Langone Health enabled an 11-year-old patient’s tracheal tumor, blocking 85 percent of the airway, to successfully be resected in less than 2 hours using robotic surgery The outcome demonstrates the pivotal strengths that come with having continuity between children’s and adult services. “This procedure could not have been done at any other children’s hospital,” says , surgical director of the . Dr. Fisher managed heparin-free extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support during the operation, minimizing the risk of surgical bleeding. “Because we had the expertise to do it robotically, the tumor was removed with only four small incisions, and it took less than an hour and a half.” “Because we had the expertise to do it robotically, the tumor was removed with only four small incisions, and it took less than an hour and a half,” says Dr. Fisher. Making All the Right Moves The patient was admitted to the pediatric ICU for difficulty breathing, hypoxia, and other symptoms initially attributed to COVID-19. Although she responded to treatment, a chest CT was performed to understand the cause of a pneumothorax leaking air into the space between the lungs and the chest wall and up into the neck. That’s when the care team saw that a mass located close to the carina was causing a near-complete obstruction of the trachea. To collect a biopsy and debulk the tumor, pediatric pulmonologist Eleanor Muise, MD Jamie L. Bessich, MD , an interventional pulmonologist with the adult hospital, performed a rigid bronchoscopy. “That was a very elegant procedure. It enabled us to not only collect a tissue sample to direct definitive treatment but also ablate part of the tumor so that airway obstruction was no longer an imminent concern.” “That was a very elegant procedure,” says Dr. Muise. “It enabled us to not only collect a tissue sample to direct definitive treatment but also ablate part of the tumor so that airway obstruction was no longer an imminent concern.” During the procedure, Dr. Fisher was ready with ECMO support in case the airway became occluded. “We didn’t need to put her on, but we had a pump and a team on standby,” he says. ECMO without Heparin Biopsy confirmed the tumor to be a soft tissue mass requiring tracheal resection and reconstruction, and world-renowned thoracic surgeon , performed the operation using a minimally invasive robotic approach. “There are no pediatric surgical specialists who can do what Dr. Cerfolio can do,” says Dr. Fisher. “The type of robotic surgery he does is in a league of its own. And he is right next door.” To optimize exposure and eliminate the need to ventilate the lungs during surgery, Dr. Fisher put the patient on ECMO. He and his team managed ECMO support without an anticoagulant, having deemed the risk of bleeding during the operation to be higher than the risk of clotting. “We have a very successful pediatric ECMO program, and we made the calculation that, based on the patient’s size, we could flow through the pump fast enough and that Dr. Cerfolio could operate with such efficiency that we could run ECMO without heparin,” says Dr. Fisher. “We were confident in our team’s approach, and we planned this well.” An Excellent Prognosis The patient will only require close follow-up as staging confirmed the cancer had not spread. Dr. Muise also completed a repeat bronchoscopy after the procedure, stating the tracheal anastomosis to be “beautiful and widely patent,” with no visual indication of abnormal mucosa in the area. “That’s what we customarily do when we see more of an adult type of tumor in a child, ask for advice, and work collaboratively with our adult partners who see these far more often than we do. We’re so fortunate that we have the capabilities of doing that here at the medical center.” The tumor was ultimately determined to be a low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma, a type of salivary gland tumor more commonly seen in adults. Results from the NYU Langone FUSION-SEQer test revealed the specific gene fusion, CRTC3-MAML2 , that helped confirm the diagnosis. Colleagues in pediatric hematology–oncology Nicole Mallory, MD , consulted on the case, which was also presented to adult specialists at a tumor board. “That’s what we customarily do when we see more of an adult type of tumor in a child, ask for advice and work collaboratively with our adult partners who see these far more often than we do,” says Dr. Raetz. “We’re so fortunate that we have the capabilities of doing that here at the medical center.” Eleanor Muise, MD, is an assistant professor of pediatrics. She specializes in pediatric pulmonary medicine and lung transplant, and her clinical and research interests focus on tracheobronchomalacia, vaping-related lung injury, and aerodigestive disorders. Pediatric Hematology–Oncology Elizabeth A. Raetz, MD, is director of the Division of Pediatric Hematology–Oncology and the KiDS of NYU Foundation Professor of Pediatric Medicine. She specializes in the treatment of leukemia. A unique program trains local specialists to tackle unmet need among children with hearing loss. , is the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology and recently ended a nearly 14-year tenure as chair of the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery . Here, Dr. Roland discusses how he and his team built a sustainable program for ENT care in Uganda, a first of its kind for the region. Developed with NYU Langone colleagues including Sean O. McMenomey, MD , the now-18-year collaboration with trainees and faculty at Makerere University has provided the support to increase education, equipment and surgical expertise . As described by Ugandan colleagues Dr. Chris Ndoleriire , chair of the department at Makerere University Dr. Amina Seguya , attending otologist, “This project is all about capacity building in our country and it has proven to be highly successful.” Dr. Roland continues to advocate for children with hearing loss by promoting awareness, providing education, and conducting research both abroad and in the diverse communities of New York City Hearing Loss: A Challenge in Uganda You’ve noted hearing impairment is a “silent epidemic” affecting millions in developing countries. As an otolaryngologist, how did you get started working in Uganda? Dr. Roland: Many years ago, my wife was working in adolescent medicine for an organization that helped to rehabilitate rescued child soldiers in Northern Uganda and provide them with housing, food, and medical care, as well as an education. While that organization no longer exists, it led me to connect with a local ENT specialist who had an interest in hearing. He knew a lot about the ears but lacked the resources to really treat ear disease and most hearing loss, and although he did have the ability to do limited testing for hearing impairment in his patients, screening on a large level was nearly impossible. I committed to help set up a program and during that initial time did not stop working—organizing the clinic, setting up equipment, reviewing cases, and performing surgery. “Education is a key objective, so we focus on training local doctors to conduct hearing screenings and to perform ear surgery including cochlear implant surgery in children and adults.” Since then, I’ve gone back numerous times. Education is a key objective, so we focus on training local doctors to conduct hearing screenings and to perform ear surgery including cochlear implant surgery in children and adults. I bring teams of NYU Langone faculty, residents, and fellows to assist with the work. Designing a Sustainable Care Model Building a sustainable hearing loss screening and treatment program in a developing nation like Uganda is a formidable endeavour. How did you come up with the care model? The care and training model was designed in accordance with our local residency program’s goals and objectives. At regular intervals, clinical teams from NYU Langone will fly over to give lectures, see patients, and perform surgeries with the local physicians. Moreover, we partner with the local organizations to carry out health promotion activities. To be clear, it’s not about us flying over to provide treatment ourselves—we aspire to create sustainable capacity. Over the years, our footprint has grown tremendously and we’ve established infrastructure including a temporal bone laboratory and hearing rehabilitation center , as well as an outpatient surgery center. It’s astonishing to see how far we’ve come. “It’s not about us flying over to provide treatment ourselves—we aspire to create sustainable capacity.” In fact, the program has been such a success that we’ve begun to publish findings (for example about feasibility implementation ). We omitted our own names from the publications to keep the focus on the doctors in Uganda. Breaking the Cycle of Dependency You’ve noted that your philosophy toward the unmet global need for hearing loss care is different than some nonprofits or nongovernmental organizations. Is the difference your focus on education and training? Yes, our focus is on equipping local doctors to succeed in the clinic. In most cases, the Ugandan doctors are treating the patients and performing the operations—we’re essentially there to educate and supervise. When I bring teams of young trainees from NYU Langone, I want them to realize that you don’t have to give a lot—all you have to do is give what you do each day. The Ugandan residents and fellows are exceptionally smart. All they need are competent teachers and equipment. Looking ahead, what are your plans for the future? We plan to start a year-long fellowship, in which a resident from Uganda with an interest in otology will spend 1 month here to learn our processes and organization and 11 months in Uganda learning with supervision under the direction of a U.S.-trained neurotologist and two Ugandan otologists. They will go through a board exam, present cases, and carry out a research project. It’s another exciting opportunity for collaboration that has evolved out of our relationships with Ugandan peers. Otology & Neurotology, Skull Base Surgery, Otolaryngology J. Thomas Roland Jr., MD, is the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology, a professor of neurosurgery, and served for nearly 14 years as the chair of the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. His research interests include enhancing outcomes in cochlear and auditory brain stem implantation, skull base and acoustic tumor surgery, and neurofibromatosis. Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Redefining the Management of Fuchs Dystrophy Since its introduction in the United States in the mid-2010s, Descemet stripping only (DSO) has revolutionized the surgical management of Fuchs dystrophy. Although similar procedures were originally explored in the 1950s and for some time after, these met with little success. The current technique—pioneered in the United States by , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor of Ophthalmology and chair of the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine—involves removal of the diseased endothelium and mound-shaped aggregates, known as guttae, without the need for a donor graft. Further advancing the treatment, Dr. Colby currently serves as the U.S. chair for two ongoing phase 3 trials evaluating whether a topical Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitor administered in the weeks following DSO surgery simultaneous cataract and DSO surgery may enhance the efficacy of the procedures for treating Fuchs dystrophy. Early studies report the topical agent aids corneal restoration following DSO. NYU Langone enrolled the first patient in the world to one of the two phase 3 trials last summer. If successful, the trials may lead to FDA approval of topical ROCK inhibitor administration as an adjuvant therapy to DSO. “Adjuvant ROCK inhibitor eye drop use could become standard practice following DSO cases in the early postoperative period.” “Adjuvant ROCK inhibitor eye drop use could become standard practice following DSO cases in the early postoperative period,” Dr. Colby says. “New evidence suggests these agents can enhance final endothelial cell count after a tissue corneal transplantation as well.” Success with DSO As an alternative to corneal transplantation, DSO boasts no risk of graft rejection and eliminates the need for long-term immunosuppression with topical steroids, making it a highly attractive option. While the procedure has a high rate of success, it warrants careful patient selection, Dr. Colby explains. “Candidates must have Fuchs that is severe enough to cause symptoms, but not so severe that they don’t have any remaining peripheral endothelium,” she says. “They should also be comfortable with experiencing blurred vision for several weeks after the procedure and must be willing to proceed with a corneal transplant if necessary.” VIDEO: Dr. Colby performing the DSO procedure. From a surgical perspective, Dr. Colby adds that it is crucial to ensure a smooth edge and prevent leftover tags when removing the diseased tissue. “It’s clear that a smooth edge tear makes it easier for cells to migrate and repopulate the corneal endothelium.” Mounting Evidence for ROCK Inhibitors Interest in ROCK inhibitors for DSO has been growing since a 2017 study found that ripasudil, a ROCK inhibitor approved as a therapy for glaucoma in Japan, rescued two patients who had Fuchs dystrophy that was slow to clear. Additional research has shown that administration of topical ripasudil after DSO for Fuchs dystrophy results in earlier corneal restoration. As a result, Dr. Colby helped lead a recently completed phase 2 trial that evaluated ripasudil (K-321) in 65 patients undergoing DSO for Fuchs dystrophy. “Preliminary data from the phase 2 trial indicates improvements in the speed of healing and the final endothelial cell count, and a reduction in the failure rate for DSO,” she says. “We’re optimistic that the trial results will make DSO available to an even larger patient population.” The ongoing phase 3 trials will each evaluate an additional 100 participants. The patients will follow a 12-week administration protocol, with a 2-week dose taper phase, and be followed for a total of 38 weeks. “We’re optimistic that the trial results will make DSO available to an even larger patient population,” Dr. Colby says. NYU Langone has a research contract with Kowa Inc. for Dr. Colby’s role as the U.S. chair for the K-321 development program. Kathryn A. Colby, MD, PhD, is the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor of Ophthalmology and chair of the Department of Ophthalmology. She specializes in managing the most complex corneal disease in children and adults, and has pioneered novel therapies for Fuchs corneal dystrophy, the most common cause for corneal transplant in the United States. Complete View of the Cornea Now in Sight While technologies for imaging the cornea have significantly improved through advances in specular microscopy, there are still no commercially available tools capable of imaging the entire corneal endothelium, including its peripheral regions. Gaining a more complete view of the cornea can provide insight into how the outermost edges respond to treatments and infections, potentially translating to improvements in care for those with vision loss secondary to corneal damage or disease. At NYU Langone Health, a breakthrough imaging device debuted in 2023: Konan Medical’s CellChek® C . The state-of-the-art, wide-field scanning specular microscope is capable of providing near-complete visualization of the cornea, says , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor of Ophthalmology in and chair of the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Her team is currently leading studies under IRB approval to test its utility. CellChek C is not yet available for commercial sale in the United States. “Only a handful of these microscopes exist worldwide.” “Only a handful of these microscopes exist worldwide,” Dr. Colby says. “We are the first institution in North America to acquire the microscope.” Visualizing the Entire Corneal Endothelium Most commercially available specular microscopes are capable of imaging the central and paracentral corneal endothelium, yet they fall short in their ability to image cells in the peripheral endothelium. According to Dr. Colby, the CellChek C microscope offers the ability to view any portion of the cornea, even the typically hard-to-see periphery, from endothelium to epithelium. The microscope’s slit-scanning technology enables high-resolution and high-contrast imaging of the corneal layers, she adds. “The images from the CellChek C are breathtaking. Instead of only seeing several hundred central endothelial cells, we can now see tens of thousands of cells throughout the entire cornea.” “The images from the CellChek C are breathtaking,” says Dr. Colby. “Instead of only seeing several hundred central endothelial cells, we can now see tens of thousands of cells throughout the entire cornea.” “With its broad imaging capability, the CellChek C is a versatile tool for enhancing our understanding of corneal diseases and the response of the cornea to various surgeries, including Descemet stripping only (DSO) and corneal transplants. Additionally, this device can provide insights into the effect of other eye diseases and surgeries, such as glaucoma or cataract, on the cornea.” Dr. Kathryn A. Colby and members of her research team with the CellChek C. Opportunities for Research From a research perspective, the microscope offers a plethora of new opportunities, one of which is clinical trials. As the director of the NYU Langone Eye Center , Dr. Colby has pioneered many practice-changing trials for some of the most complex corneal diseases in children and adults. ongoing study led by Dr. Colby and her team will compare the CellChek C microscope to the CellChek 20, widely considered the gold standard in specular microscopy. “We have high hopes that CellChek C will outperform the current standard,” she says. “As we collect more data and explore the microscope’s full potential, we look forward to sharing it with the medical community.” VIDEO: The corneal endothelium in a healthy patient, imaged using the CellChek C. VIDEO: The peripheral corneal endothelium in a patient with moderate Fuchs dystrophy, imaged using the CellChek C. Dr. Umamaheswar Duvvuri on the Cutting Edge of Robotic Surgery Umamaheswar Duvvuri, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health , sat down with , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM to discuss his pioneering work on robotic surgery, running the Department of Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery , and where the future lies in his field. Subscribers can hear the full conversation the interview extract below has been edited for length and clarity. Tell me about your background. How did you get to where you are now? Dr. Duvvuri: I was born in India, in a city called Hyderabad, in the south of India. When I was seven, my dad decided he wanted a new experience, so he moved us to Jamaica. Not Jamaica, Queens, but the country, the island. So, I grew up in the Caribbean, and when I finished high school, I was lucky enough to get accepted to UPenn. My bachelor’s is actually in biomedical engineering, and one of the people that I worked with was a scientist who did a lot of work on imaging and how engineering affects medicine and biomedical engineering. I asked him to write me a letter of recommendation to be a graduate student, because I wanted to be a PhD, just like him. He looked at me, he said, no. And I said, why not? And he said, there are three kinds of people in this world. The ones that have the hammers, that’s the engineers. The ones that have the nails and know what the problems are, those are the doctors. There’s a small third group of people who know both. What do you want to do? So, if you put it that way, well, I want to be the third group that knows both. And he said, that’s right. So you’ve got to be an MD PhD. I was born in India. When I was seven, my dad decided he wanted a new experience, so he moved us to Jamaica. So, I grew up in the Caribbean. At that time, I knew I wanted to do something that involved working with my hands, where I helped people, where I saw immediate gratification from taking care of patients. Surgery was a clear link to that. And because of my background, coming from India, head and neck cancer actually struck me as being particularly relevant. I’ve had family members with it, and it’s actually one of the leading causes of death in the world in terms of cancer. And so, I decided to become an otolaryngologist to take care of patients with head and neck cancer. That was my motivation, with the intention of hopefully one day being able to contribute back to India. Talk to me a little more about robotic neck dissections, which is part of what you’ve pioneered. How exactly are they performed using a robot? We do it usually with an open approach, where you make an incision that starts just around the back of the neck, under the ear, and comes across towards the voice box. It’s about a 3- to 3.5-inch incision, which is quite large but can be hidden very nicely, and can be very cosmetic and closed well. But when you cut across those lymphatics in the neck, you always develop some amount of lymphedema. And the patients often complain that they have what they call turkey gobble under their chin. To avoid that, we developed a technique that uses a modified facelift approach which displaces that scar, putting it in a place in the hairline. When you lift up the skin, you put the surgical robot under that skin incision, and you use that to remove the lymph nodes. Same operation, just done a slightly different way. Not only is there benefit from cosmesis, there’s also benefit from the functional outcomes, because when you save all that skin and you prevent those scars, you get a lot less edema in the neck after surgery. That’s really beneficial to the patients, supporting good oncologic outcomes. We just published our five-year outcomes on this. We showed that if you compare patients who had robotic neck dissections versus patients that had traditional neck dissections, their five-year overall survival was the same . So, this is not an inferior technique in terms of survival, and it improves blood loss and improves outcomes. When will you be able to operate in other places of the world using the robotic console? It’s a very interesting question. I just came back from a big meeting from the Society of Robotic Surgery, where we discussed this. It turns out that surgeons in China have been doing this for the last year, and they’ve actually been operating about a thousand miles away from each other. They can do surgeries across the different coasts of China. The technology is here. The delays in what we call latency have been solved. They can be controlled. “It turns out that surgeons in China have been doing [telesurgery] for the last year, and they’ve actually been operating about a thousand miles away from each other.” The problem for America is we have a very high bar for safety. The ability to actually go through all the regulatory framework is honestly our biggest holdup. We want to make sure that we’re doing things in a safe and careful fashion. But the technique, the technology, the ability, it’s actually here. So, I don’t think that this is too far away. And this is actually one of the things that I’m passionate about, is bringing telesurgery or telemedicine truly to our space, because I strongly feel that just because you happen to live in a smaller town or a smaller city doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t have access to the same quality of care that you might get anywhere else. The issue of thyroid-sparing surgery appeals to me, because if I’m treating somebody that had a partial thyroidectomy versus a total thyroidectomy, it’s a different clinical appearance—how much thyroid hormone I have to use, how much I have to worry about things. Does the robot help you spare thyroid tissue? The short answer is no. The robot itself doesn’t help us. But I think what the robotic techniques have allowed us to do is to do the surgery in a very safe fashion and allowed us actually to incorporate modern advances to be more precise about making sure the tumors are removed. The American Thyroid Association has now told us, based on lots of data, that a partial thyroidectomy is a safe operation for people that have small thyroid cancers, those that are confined to the thyroid and haven’t spread to lymph nodes. You can do that safely, especially at a place like NYU Langone Health, where we have a tremendous team of endocrinologists and surgeons that work together. We can really work to create a personalized treatment plan to give the patients the right type of treatment. When I was a young doctor, if you had a thyroid cancer, the whole thyroid was coming out, and you were going to get radioactive iodine. Now, not so much. We can use molecular testing. We can use genetic algorithms. We can use technologies like radiofrequency ablation. We can do lots of things to minimize the toxicity profile for our patients. You use both robotic and nonrobotic approaches. Which head and neck procedures are more prone to needing one versus the other? It’s not as simple as that. It’s not that you’ve got tons of cancer, so you get a robotic surgery, or you got thyroid cancer, so you don’t. It’s much more an issue of, is the robotic approach or the open approach going to give the patient the best outcome and, ideally, with the least amount of toxicity so that they can carry on with their lives? The goal is not to have the treatment be worse than the disease in some sense. This is the approach that I would like us all to move towards as a field.” The goal is not to have the treatment be worse than the disease in some sense. This is the approach that I would like us all to move towards as a field, and we do this here at NYU Langone, which is, how can we deescalate and appropriately personalize the care for these patients? The goal here is that, going back to the hammer-and-the-nail analogy, not every nail needs the same hammer. I left out something we’re really, really world-renowned for, which is cochlear implants. What about AI? How is AI going to be integrated into ENT here? Artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms are definitely changing how we think about the delivery of care. There are a couple of ways that we’re looking at this. One is understanding, going back to this point, the right treatment for the right patient at the right time. Can artificial intelligence algorithms allow us to synthesize large amounts of data to figure out what’s happening? I’m also very privileged to be a part of a clinical trial that just opened at our veterans hospital, where we’re using artificial intelligence to prognosticate how patients will do with algorithms for treatment for oropharyngeal cancer with chemotherapy and radiation. This is a huge study, it’s a multicenter study. And I think this highlights how AI and machine learning algorithms may have unexpected roles. I don’t think it’s going to replace a doctor or a surgeon anytime soon. But I do think it will augment how we make our decisions. Head & Neck Surgery Umamaheswar Duvvuri, MD, PhD, is the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery, where he is also chair. He specializes in applying minimally invasive robotic surgery to treat head and neck malignancies while simultaneously minimizing patient impact. Cochlear Implant Center Marks 40 Years of Innovation On February 9, 2024, NYU Langone’s celebrated the 40th anniversary of its first surgical cochlear implant. Since its start, the center has been involved in testing every major cochlear innovation and has implanted roughly 5,000 devices in patients ranging from 4 months to 97 years old. Here, center co-directors Sean O. McMenomey, MD William H. Shapiro, AUD , discuss the important lessons learned from their decades of experience. In addition, they describe the center’s central role in advancing other procedures like auditory brainstem implants, skull base surgery, and nonsurgical regeneration of tympanic membranes. Decades of Change with Cochlear Implants Cochlear implants have certainly evolved since you first started implanting them in 1984. Can you reflect on these advances? Dr. McMenomey: Our colleague Dr. J Thomas Roland Jr. has done a monumental amount of work on advances in electrode array design. I think we’ve been involved in every single advancement of electrode arrays for years. A modern cochlear implant is now beautifully thin, much thinner than the ones of yore: I used to put implants in that were at least three times thicker. How has your pool of eligible patients changed? Dr. Shapiro: When we began implanting these cochlear devices, adult patients with bilateral hearing loss couldn’t have any hearing at all because we didn’t know what we could guarantee. The technology and selection criteria have changed dramatically since then, and we can now help a much wider spectrum of patients. The typical adult with hearing loss is a candidate for a cochlear implant if their speech discrimination is less than 60 percent with a hearing aid. Patients with single-sided deafness (SSD) now make up our fastest-growing cohort. These patients often experience sudden idiopathic sensorineural hearing loss, and we don’t know exactly what causes it. I would say 30 percent of the patients that we implant are adults with SSD, and our cochlear implants in this group have been wildly successful. We also started implanting pediatric patients who have SSD. They may be born with an anatomical variant: maybe their cochlea isn’t developed enough or their cochlear nerve is not robust enough to carry a signal. We’re seeing some success here as well, though not to same level as in adults who could hear before experiencing SSD. Removing Age as a Limitation What accounts for the center’s huge range in patient ages? Dr. Shapiro : Dr. Roland devised a protocol that allows us to offer cochlear implants under local anesthesia with sedation to patients who are older or have extensive comorbidities. The patient is awake but sedated, and the recovery is much quicker than from general anesthesia. Anyone who is medically fragile or older, like the 97-year-old patient, could have the surgery with local anesthesia—that’s a big deal because not a lot of centers do that. “There really is no age limit.” We also implant patients routinely at 6 months of age, putting in two implants at the same time. Official FDA approval is down to 9 months of age, but a physician who thinks it’s in the best interest of the patient can implant off-label at earlier ages. The 4-month-old child that we implanted had bacterial meningitis, which can cause the tunnels in the cochlea to ossify. It’s important to get the electrode in as quickly as possible or it won’t be possible to place the full array. So that child needed implants at 4 months of age—there really is no age limit. Expertise with Auditory Brainstem Implants The center has played a leading role in advancing auditory brainstem implants (ABIs). Can you tell us about the center’s expertise with ABIs and explain what constitutes a successful case? There are two cohorts that we commonly treat with ABIs. The first cohort is adult patients with neurofibromatosis type 2 from whom Sean needs to remove a tumor. Potential hearing loss is always a consideration with operations to remove these kinds of tumors. The other cohort is children who are born with no cochlea or cochlear nerves— Dr. Susan B. Waltzman has played a leading role in advancing ABIs in this group In our experience, most children receive a measurable degree of auditory benefit from their implant, as well as improved quality of life. Our best pediatric performers have some limited open-set discrimination, which means they’re able to understand some speech without additional visual cues. None of our patients who receive ABIs use audition as their primary mode of communication; they’re all what we call multimodality: they also use sign language, lipreading, or other strategies. It depends on the year, but we perform between 5 and 10 ABIs every year. When we put an ABI in, it’s because there’s no other option. The children who were born without a cochlea or without a nerve aren’t candidates for cochlear implants, so their options are either an ABI or remaining without hearing. Preserving Hearing in Skull Base Surgery The center has worked hard to minimize hearing loss following skull base surgery—a big concern for patients. What lessons have you learned from that experience? The most common skull base surgery is for acoustic neuroma, also known as vestibular schwannoma, a typically benign tumor on the vestibular nerve. This tumor usually causes unilateral hearing loss due to its location inside the skull, where it can exert pressure on the auditory nerve. Hearing loss is far and away the most common symptom. Fortunately, we do have options to help this group of patients deal with their hearing loss. Our goal is—whenever possible—to preserve hearing, to keep it right where it is preoperatively by preventing further damage to the brain and nerve. We have conducted several studies to understand how factors such as acoustic tumor size impact hearing loss, enabling us to better advise and manage patients undergoing these surgeries. If you have a patient who comes in with normal hearing but who has an acoustic neuroma, they may lose their hearing in one ear when the neuroma is removed. But if the surgeon feels that they saved the nerve, we may be able to implant that patient with a cochlear implant. In fact, we’ve done that for some of our neuroma patients with SSD, including patients with stable unoperated tumors. Innovations on the Horizon What ongoing research at the center do you find particularly exciting? For the last hundred years, there really hasn’t been a nonsurgical way to repair a perforated eardrum. But we are doing a study right now that is looking at applying growth factor to the eardrum . It’s a double-blind study, and some patients are getting a placebo and some patients are getting the active drug to answer this question: Is there a way we can repair a perforated eardrum without taking patients to the operating room? “The coming decades promise exciting advancements in cochlear technology, and we’re thrilled to contribute to these efforts.” Another study we’re involved in is exploring whether we can create an electrode that continuously bathes the cochlea in steroids, preventing an inflammatory reaction to the presence of a foreign body—the implant—within the cochlea and thereby preserving hearing. The answer is not in yet, but it’s ongoing work. Finally, the center is conducting experimental cochlear implant mapping based on music perception in patients with SSD . Again, the research shows how we’re leading the way in investigating different strategies, in this case helping patients with implants appreciate music. One of the things that makes it so fun to work here is that NYU Langone is basically involved in every cutting-edge cochlear implant trial, because we’re a high-volume center and well known and we do good work. The coming decades promise exciting advancements in cochlear technology, and we’re thrilled to contribute to these efforts. Sean O. McMenomey, MD, is a professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery and of neurosurgery. He is co-director of the Cochlear Implant Center and specializes in cochlear implants, skull base surgery, acoustic neuroma, meningioma, and other treatments of hearing loss. William H. Shapiro, AUD, is the Lester S. Miller, Jr. and Kathleen V. Miller Clinical Assistant Professor of Hearing Health in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery, co-director of the Cochlear Implant Center, and director of audiology. One Size Doesn’t Fit All in Concussion Recovery , physiatrist Lincy S. Thadathil, DO , sees most of the patients with concussion who come through the hospital’s emergency department and outpatient office. A specialist in traumatic brain injury, Dr. Thadathil is part of a multidisciplinary concussion team focused on individualizing treatment. “No two concussions are exactly alike,” she says. “Each patient who walks through our doors is managed a little differently.” If not detected early and managed properly, concussion can result in prolonged neurologic symptoms, Dr. Thadathil says. At NYU Langone Health, a precise methodology based on leading-edge research in concussion management is used to evaluate the array of concussion symptoms that may affect function. “No two concussions are exactly alike. Each patient who walks through our doors is managed a little differently.” “Brain disturbances may not show up immediately, so it’s important to thoroughly evaluate these patients,” Dr. Thadathil says. “The assessment checklist helps us address what actually happened, targeting each subgroup of symptoms—physiological, oculomotor and vestibular, cervical spine, and mood and cognition. “The goal is to initiate treatment as soon as possible and direct specific rehabilitation when persistent post-concussion symptoms are detected.” Individualized Rehab Once the initial evaluation is complete, a rehabilitation plan is developed to manage each symptom individually. This individualized rehabilitation takes a highly specialized, multidisciplinary team approach, involving experts in vestibular rehabilitation, neuro-focused occupational and speech therapy, neuropsychology, endocrinology, and otolaryngology. In most situations, patients are managed as outpatients. However, depending on the severity of the injury and symptoms, patients may be evaluated in the hospital. When the patient leaves the hospital, Dr. Thadathil works with social work and case management to transition them to the appropriate level of rehab—whether at or another facility closer to home, either subacute or outpatient. “Most concussions don’t show up on MRI, so we need better methods to measure brain changes sooner, rather than later, when they have already occurred.” “If they’ve done well with the structural rehab at the hospital, we will help them transition into the community—to their house with home health, outpatient follow-up with me, or medication monitoring and outpatient therapy in the office,” Dr. Thadathil says. Diligent Monitoring While most patients with concussion recover within a few weeks, Dr. Thadathil says, a significant group experiences persistent post-concussive symptoms, some of which may be from associated cervical or persistent vestibular dysfunction. She and the rehabilitation specialists monitor each patient’s progress and watch for these post-concussion sequalae that may occur once a patient leaves the hospital or the initial evaluation. To help patients self-recognize warning signs of concussion and seek care, Dr. Thadathil and colleagues are engaged in community outreach. “Through our public education, some individuals come in by themselves because they believe they’ve had a concussion, or for a second or third opinion,” she says. “We’re teaching them to identify the symptoms and seek early evaluation.” Looking to improve methods for evaluating and monitoring concussion, Dr. Thadathil is participating in a research study led by neuroradiology colleague Yvonne W. Lui, MD Unpacking the Importance of the Structural Injuries of MTBI . The study will apply new MRI techniques, including advanced diffusion MRI, to measure brain microstructure changes in patients who have sustained concussion in the past six months. The goal is to identify distinct changes associated with recovery outcomes. Dr. Thadathil and colleagues will also participate in a trial of the Mobile Integrated Cognitive Kit (MICK) in emergency departments. The tablet app was developed by NYU Langone neuro-ophthalmologists to diagnose sideline concussion quickly by assessing visual pathways in the brain. “Most concussions don’t show up on MRI, so we need better methods to measure brain changes sooner, rather than later, when they have already occurred,” Dr. Thadathil says. Lincy S. Thadathil, DO, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine and a physiatrist at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. A specialist in traumatic brain injury, she treats concussion, stroke, and other injuries requiring neurologic intervention and rehabilitation. Differential Diagnosis of Optic Neuritis Can Point to Early Multiple Sclerosis A 24-year-old woman presented with blurred vision that had developed over several days. The woman’s symptoms worsened when her left eye was closed, while her vision normalized with her right eye closed. She reported pain, mainly in the right globe, when she moved her eyes. MRI showed an enhancing lesion of the affected optic nerve and an additional non-enhancing lesion in the periventricular area. In an invited response to the theoretical case vignette published by The New England Journal of Medicine , NYU Langone neuro-ophthalmologist , concluded that the patient’s features were consistent with demyelinating optic neuritis, an early manifestation of multiple sclerosis (MS) in up to 25 percent of patients. Given the effectiveness of new medications, he responded to the hypothetical case by urging the initiation of disease-modifying strategies to help prevent future attacks. “The data are now there for giving optic nerve lesions equal footing with the other lesion sites in the diagnostic criteria for MS.” Although optic neuritis has long been associated with MS, it has yet to be formally included in the consensus diagnostic criteria of lesions in at least two of four locations within the central nervous system. Dr. Galetta, however, has led a growing effort to prove the utility of optic neuritis as a fifth lesion site in establishing an early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention. “Our part was in establishing this new technology, optic coherence tomography, to measure the thickness of the optic nerve and validate it as one of the tools you could use to measure optic nerve dysfunction in MS,” he says. In a widely-cited 2019 study, he and collaborators used optic coherence tomography (OCT) to define the criteria for establishing optic nerve dysfunction in the setting of MS . Multiple studies have since shown that via clinical findings or imaging techniques such as MRI or OCT, including the optic nerve improves the diagnostic accuracy for MS. “The data are now there for giving optic nerve lesions equal footing with the other lesion sites in the diagnostic criteria for MS,” he says. The promising studies have led to a new editorial in in which Dr. Galetta and a collaborator at University College London lay out the argument for including the optic nerve in an upcoming revision of the consensus diagnostic criteria and providing what they hope will become a critical new tool for clinicians. Its title references the raft of new evidence: “Assignment Completed: The Optic Nerve Should Graduate to be the Fifth Lesion Site for the Diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis.” Open Surgery Resolves Large AVM Causing Intractable Headaches An angiogram showing the patient's arteriovenous malformation. Source: NYU Langone Health After sustaining a football-related concussion in August 2023, a 15-year-old boy with a preexisting history of chronic migraines experienced worsening symptoms, severe nausea and visual defects in his left eye. His migraines increased in frequency until he was unable to attend school. Neither physical therapy nor acupuncture provided relief. And although treatment with rimegepant dulled some of his pain, it intensified his nausea. By April 2024, an MRI revealed the cause: a large arteriovenous malformation (AVM) centered in the right occipital lobe of the patient’s brain. Following the diagnosis, the patient was referred to NYU Langone Health neurosurgeon Howard A. Riina, MD , for specialized care. In just a month after Dr. Riina and his team performed open surgery to resect the lesion, the patient experienced a life-changing moment—freedom from the migraines that had plagued him for years. The patient, family, and clinical team chose embolization followed by open surgery for curative treatment of the lesion and for immediate relief of debilitating migraines. Preoperative angiography with 3D reconstructions revealed the AVM to be 4 cm in size and at a high risk of bleeding. Functional MRI with diffusion tractography mapped adjacent eloquent brain surfaces and white matter anatomy. Preoperative embolization reduced the size of the AVM nidus by about 50 percent. Detailed Surgical Planning Dr. Riina initially performed diagnostic and rotational angiography with 3D reconstructions (Slide 1) to better characterize the vascular pathology and to inform clinical decision-making. The detailed imaging confirmed the exact size and location of the AVM, as well as the arterial branches feeding it. The imaging also revealed several areas of the lesion featuring a high risk for potential bleeding. Treatment options were then presented, including surgical resection, Gamma Knife radiosurgery, and endovascular embolization, on its own or in combination with one of the other strategies. The patient and his family chose surgery combined with embolization, in part because radiosurgery sometimes requires two to four years for complete treatment response. “We knew that resection could provide an immediate cure if the malformation was completely removed, leading to a rapid improvement of his headache syndrome.” “Given the size and location of the AVM, his symptoms, and the significant risk of AVM-related bleeding over his lifetime, I felt that surgical resection was his best option,” Dr. Riina says. “We knew that resection could provide an immediate cure if the malformation was completely removed, leading to a rapid improvement of his headache syndrome.” Functional MRI (fMRI) with diffusion tractography, conducted by neuroradiologist Timothy M. Shepherd, MD, PhD , confirmed that the AVM did not involve eloquent cortical regions and provided detailed mapping of the patient’s white matter anatomy (Slide 2). “Dr. Riina and I determine eloquence based on direct fMRI visualization of patient tasks,” Dr. Shepherd says. “We also look at additional important cortical regions, like frontal eye fields and the supplementary motor area. We then map the white matter anatomy that connects all these regions.” This advanced imaging provides a more complete picture for safer treatment planning, Dr. Shepherd says. [We] determine eloquence based on direct fMRI visualization of patient tasks … We then map the white matter anatomy that connects all these regions.” In a preoperative embolization, Dr. Riina infused an ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide into arterial branches feeding the patient’s AVM nidus. The procedure obliterated roughly 50 to 60 percent of the AVM nidus, as shown by an angiogram (Slide 3). The following day, Dr. Riina performed an image-guided craniotomy and resection of the AVM. Intraoperative angiography confirmed the prior embolization and the successful resection of the remaining components of the AVM body (Slide 4). The patient’s migraines and visual field defects fully resolved after his surgery. AVM Characterized By Angiography Preoperative angiography using right internal carotid injection with 3D reconstructions revealed a 4-centimeter AVM (far left) fed by several arterial branches with drainage through an enlarged vein. fMRI Aids Treatment Planning fMRI activations were used to map critical functional regions, including visual tracking. Based on these visualizations and others, the fMRI helped determine there was a safe margin for resection of the AVM without a high risk of affecting eloquent regions. Establishing Embolization Success A postembolization angiogram confirmed that the procedure successfully blocked about 50 to 60 percent of the tangled blood vessels. The angiogram also showed preservation of the drainage through a vein toward the superior sagittal sinus. AVM Resection Confirmed By Intraoperative Angiogram Following an image-guided craniotomy and dissection of the AVM from surrounding tissue, an intraoperative angiogram confirmed the successful resection of the AVM. Howard A. Riina, MD, is the Lucius N. Littauer Professor of Neurosurgery, a professor of neurology and radiology, director of the Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases, and vice chair of clinical affairs for the Department of Neurosurgery. He specializes in surgical and endovascular treatment for people with cerebrovascular disorders of the brain and spinal cord. Timothy M. Shepherd, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of radiology, associate section chief of neuroradiology, and director of its brain mapping. He specializes in neuroradiology and the translation of advanced imaging techniques into clinical practice. Latest in Neurosurgery NYU Langone Health Presenters at the CNS 2024 Annual Meeting Houston, Texas. Source: Getty Images NYU Langone Health’s neurosurgery experts join colleagues from around the world at the Congress of Neurological Surgeons 2024 annual meeting in Houston. See the CNS website for Symposium SYM17A: Brain Tumor Update—Management of Malignant Brain Tumors Dimitris G. Placantonakis, MD, PhD 8:00AM–12:00PM Special Symposium 03: CNS Data Science and AI for Neurosurgeons: A Hands-On Experience Eric K. Oermann, MD 8:00AM–4:15PM Special Symposium 05: Greatest Surgical Challenges in the Cerebellopontine Angle, Petrous Apex and Petroclival Fissure—CNS/NASBS Symposium Douglas Kondziolka, MD Chandra Sen, MD Special Symposium 04: Meeting of the Americas SYM11A: Swimming with the Sharks Section Session Section on Disorders of the Spine and Peripheral Nerves 1: Update on Minimally Invasive and Endoscopic Surgery 2:50–4:22PM Tuesday, October 1 General Scientific Session III 8:40AM–12:12PM Luncheon Seminar T14: Aneurysms: Tools and Tricks of the Trade Erez Nossek, MD 12:20–1:50PM Special Course Neurosurgery Publications: “Getting Published ” 1:20–2:50PM Section on Tumors 2: Focused Ultrasound and Intraoperative Photodynamic Therapy During Brain Tumor Resection 2:50–4:20PM Concurrent Session Cavernous Malformations: What Does the Modern Data Show? A Case-Based Joint Session of Sections on Pediatric Neurosurgery and Cerebrovascular Surgery 4:30–6:00PM Uncovering the Role of GERD in Complex Pulmonary Disease Since many patients with chronic pulmonary conditions experience poor disease control, researchers are turning to the extra-esophageal manifestations of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) to look for clues that might explain this phenomenon. Investigators at NYU Langone Health’s were prompted by recent findings to further examine the association between GERD and chronic lung disease severity. The new research will be presented at a national conference in late 2023. “We have evidence from pH testing that many patients with complex pulmonary disease experience a significant amount of reflux, but it’s often silent, due to the absence of symptoms,” explains , surgical director of the Center for Esophageal Health. “Overall, there should be serious consideration for low-risk minimally invasive surgery in select patients with complex pulmonary disease. These procedures are very safe and may lead to a significant improvement in disease control.” “For these patients, the influence of GERD and esophageal motility disorders is becoming increasingly recognized, and recent advances in diagnostic testing can help to identify those who might benefit from treatment, either medically or surgically,” says , medical director of the center. Inflammation Exacerbates Lung Disease GERD is known to cause, trigger, or exacerbate many chronic pulmonary diseases including asthma, interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, and bronchiectasis, and while the physiological link between GERD and lung disease severity has been well established, it remains an underrecognized and undertreated comorbidity. While some patients will report symptoms, including heartburn, regurgitation, and dysphagia, others may have clinically silent disease, which is frequently seen among lung transplant recipients. “Microaspiration from reflux can lead to basilar changes in the lung tissue, driving inflammatory processes and the development of fibrosis,” Dr. Damani says. The Importance of Testing When evaluating patients with pulmonary disease, a personalized approach should be taken to identify the influence of esophageal disease, which may involve several different types of tests, Dr. Khan explains. For example, an esophageal manometry test or assessment by functional luminal imaging probe (FLIP) on endoscopy could be used to help identify esophageal motility problems. “Recent advances in diagnostic testing can help to identify those who might benefit from treatment, either medically or surgically.” Another common test is an ambulatory pH study, which can either be done with a wireless pH-sensing capsule that examines acid reflux for 48 to 96 hours, or with a 24-hour catheter-based pH impedance test that looks at both acid and nonacid reflux for 24 hours. “These tests are usually performed when initial endoscopic investigation is unrevealing, especially when symptoms persist despite empiric therapy,” Dr. Khan says. Developing a Treatment Strategy Notwithstanding lifestyle modifications and acid suppressive therapy, many patients with chronic pathologic GERD and complex pulmonary disease may benefit from minimally invasive anti-reflux surgery, Dr. Damani explains. The Toupet (270 degree) fundoplication has been shown to be as efficacious as the Nissen (360 degree) technique, but with fewer rates of postoperative dysphagia and gas bloat syndrome. Additionally, among lung transplant populations, anti-reflux surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic allograft dysfunction, but surgery has not been extensively studied in bronchiectasis other than a few reports that signal toward lung function preservation. “In patients with bronchiectasis, GERD is an important risk factor for recurrent microaspiration and progression of pulmonary disease. The opportunity to treat the underlying GERD should not be overlooked.” Doreen J. Addrizzo-Harris, MD “In patients with bronchiectasis, GERD is an important risk factor for recurrent microaspiration and progression of pulmonary disease,” says pulmonary and critical care physician . “For many of these patients with recurrent exacerbations and progressive respiratory compromise, the opportunity to treat the underlying GERD should not be overlooked.” “Overall, there should be serious consideration for low-risk minimally invasive surgery in select patients with complex pulmonary disease,” Dr. Damani says. “These procedures are very safe and may lead to a significant improvement in disease control.” Doreen J. Addrizzo-Harris, MD, is a professor of medicine, associate director of education and faculty affairs in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, and director of the Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine Fellowship. Her research focuses on bronchiectasis, sarcoidosis, and nontuberculous mycobacterial infection. Tanuja Damani, MD, is surgical director of the Center for Esophageal Health and an associate professor of surgery. She specializes in the minimally invasive treatment of disorders of the esophagus and stomach. Abraham R. Khan, MD, is medical director of the Center for Esophageal Health and an associate professor of medicine. He specializes in the treatment of disorders of the esophagus and is passionate about using modern technology to prevent and treat these conditions. Gastroenterology & GI Surgery GI Hospitalist Model Gains Traction Melissa Latorre, MD Over the last 25 years, the internal medicine hospitalist care model has demonstrated improvements in hospital length of stay and readmissions, reductions in in-hospital mortality, and cost savings. More recently, subspecialties including gastroenterology (GI) have begun to adopt the model given its and the growing need to have physicians on-site for inpatient endoscopic interventions. At NYU Langone Health, four GI hospitalists (GIHs) are embedded across the system, with the first added six years ago. Last fall at the American College of Gastroenterology’s Annual Scientific Meeting, gastroenterologist , and colleagues presented data from a retrospective single-center study on the impact of hiring a GIH, finding that having such a specialist on-site is associated with reduced length of stay and an increase in inpatient general GI volumes “Since starting the GI hospitalist model at NYU Langone in 2017, there has been an approximately 55 percent increase in the number of inpatient endoscopic procedures performed annually,” Dr. Latorre says. “The GI attending is on-site and familiar with hospital operations, and they are able to address complications such as GI bleed within the same day if necessary.” “I think institutions understand the impact of a medicine hospitalist on inpatient care and can easily extrapolate the potential benefits a GI hospitalist can bring, especially in a busy quaternary care hospital like NYU Langone,” she says. Improved Metrics and Outcomes The support provided by the GIH model has enabled NYU Langone to launch several initiatives to streamline care, Dr. Latorre says, including a small bowel bleeding program to accommodate the increasing volume of patients with gastrointestinal hemorrhage. As part of the program, GIHs acquired skills in video capsule endoscopy and deep enteroscopy to expedite the evaluation of patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. A separate initiative reduced the incidence of postoperative bowel complications in patients undergoing orthopedic surgery, including small bowel ileus, perforation, and death. During the COVID-19 pandemic, a GIH-led enteral nutrition team helped to triage and place gastrostomy tubes for patients with long-term nutrition needs. The model was associated with lower in-hospital mortality following gastrostomy tube placement. The GIH team continues to explore opportunities for further quality improvement through this model, adds Dr. Latorre. Benefits to Both Sides The increased efficiencies of the GIH model also extend to outpatient care. “Studies at other institutions have shown that there is an increase in both inpatient and outpatient procedures with the hospitalist model,” notes Dr. Latorre. “Hospital patients are treated more immediately, and you make the outpatient physicians more available.” “Hospital patients are treated more immediately, and you make the outpatient physicians more available.” While some outpatient physicians were initially skeptical, Dr. Latorre and her GIH colleagues have incorporated them as integral members of the patient’s inpatient care team. “With smart use of the electronic medical record and chats, we have complete transparency,” she says. “We’ve also created a better experience for the patients because we’re able to address the acute situation and send them back to their outpatient physician in a shorter time.” Education and Career Path Dr. Latorre believes the GI fellowship lends itself well to transitioning to a GIH role. “Fellows tend to spend much more time in the hospital during their training than they do in an ambulatory,” she says. “We work hand in hand with our trainees; education is a big part of what we do.” recent survey of GI fellowship program directors , many respondents believed a GIH would improve fellowship education and quality of inpatient care. Because they spend most of their time within the walls of the hospital and are familiar with the leadership, attendings, and physicians, “it’s common for hospitalists to integrate themselves into administrative roles within the hospital,” Dr. Latorre adds. “I think this career path is going to become more prevalent just as it has for medicine hospitalists,” she says. “The pace of a GIH’s day can be very different than that of their outpatient colleagues. While time in the hospital can be very demanding and unpredictable, I find tremendous satisfaction in helping patients with life-threatening gastrointestinal illnesses and training the future generation of gastroenterologists.” Melissa Latorre, MD, MS, is an assistant professor of medicine and section chief in the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion. Her research focuses on improving outcomes in the inpatient gastroenterology setting. For a patient with a tumor in the head of the pancreas, a robotic approach enabled a safe operation and rapid recovery. Upwards of 80 percent of Whipple procedures at are performed robotically, a sharp rise from just a few years ago when the medical center first offered the robotic approach. The rapid growth positions NYU Langone Health as one of just a few centers across the nation executing a high-volume robotic Whipple program. “We have raised our level of performance such that every person who’s eligible for a robotic Whipple, however complex, is able to get one,” says , director of the Robotic Surgical Oncology Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and of Research Information Systems at The progress reflects the programmatic approach taken by NYU Langone’s integrated hepato-pancreato-biliary surgery team, and Dr. Winner emphasizes collaboration with surgical colleagues across NYU Langone’s campuses, including Eihab Abdelfatah, MD , in Long Island, and Steven M. Cohen, DO , in Manhattan. “We have raised our level of performance such that every person who’s eligible for a robotic Whipple, however complex, is able to get one.” According to Dr. Winner, the program’s success can be attributed to many players across NYU Langone who committed in concert, including surgeons, physician assistants (PAs), and members of leadership who purchased additional robotic surgical systems to ensure ample access. “The best way to do a Whipple efficiently is to engage the PAs who are robotically trained,” Dr. Winner says. “An unnecessarily long operation is not healthy for the patient or surgeon.” At the Long Island campus, procedures are typically completed in 3.5 hours, and patients can return home as early as 3 days following surgery. Early in adopting the robotic Whipple, Dr. Winner recalls performing on a patient with a tumor in a difficult location, in the posterior uncinate process and above the inferior vena cava. The case reinforced to Dr. Winner the unparalleled operative and postoperative experience offered by the procedure. “In adopting the robotic Whipple platform, I was worried about compromising any of the excellent quality that we have achieved in our open Whipple program. But what I’ve learned from my patients who went through these procedures is there is tremendous benefit offered by the robotic platform.” Dr. Winner has participated in courses sponsored by Intuitive Surgical, Inc. but is not a paid consultant for the company. Megan D. Winner, MD, MS, FACS, is an assistant professor of surgery, director of the Robotic Surgical Oncology Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, and director of Research Information Systems at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Atherosclerosis May Be a Risk Factor for IBD A growing body of evidence suggests that atherosclerotic-related inflammation may play a role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Yet to date, there has been little research assessing the relationship between a diagnosis of an atherosclerotic-related condition and the risk of eventually developing IBD. In a study presented at Digestive Disease Week 2023, researchers led by gastroenterologist Adam Faye, MD , an assistant professor of medicine and population health at NYU Langone Health, explored that question in unprecedented scope and detail. “That the association shows up long before diagnosis suggests we’re not just seeing two conditions that happen to co-occur.” Using the Swedish Patient Register and the ESPRESSO (Epidemiology Strengthened by histoPathology Reports in Sweden) cohort, the team identified more than 56,000 individuals with IBD between 2002 and 2021, and matched these cases to over 530,000 controls. They then calculated odds ratios (OR) for exposure to an atherosclerotic-related condition (myocardial infarction, thromboembolic stroke, or atherosclerosis itself) before diagnosis with IBD. “The Swedish data is one of the best assets available for this type of research,” Dr. Faye explains, “because it enables us to track diagnoses, healthcare usage, pathology reports, and prescriptions for every patient in the country over decades, with almost no loss to follow-up.” An Unprecedented Investigation It has long been known that IBD and atherosclerosis have partly overlapping pathophysiology, with plaque deposition leading to immune activation and upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. A 2013 study found the risk for ischemic heart disease to be highest in the year following a diagnosis of IBD , suggesting that atherosclerosis may have long preceded symptomatic bowel inflammation. More recently, studies have shown that statin use, which reduces the inflammatory burden associated with atherosclerosis, may reduce the risk of IBD The new investigation, however, was the first population-based case-control study to examine the potential links between atherosclerosis and the development of IBD. Dr. Faye and his colleagues evaluated the epidemiological associations between a prior atherosclerotic condition and the development of IBD, as well as between the number and types of atherosclerotic conditions and the development of IBD. An Array of Associations The team found that older adults who developed IBD were significantly more likely to have an atherosclerotic-related condition as compared to both the general population and sibling controls. Results were statistically significant for both Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis and were consistent regardless of the patient’s age at IBD diagnosis. “Atherosclerosis prevention may be important not only to limit the development of cardiovascular disease, but also to limit the development of IBD.” The highest odds of a preceding atherosclerotic condition were seen in the 12 months before the IBD diagnosis, with patients with IBD being 78 percent more likely to have experienced an atherosclerotic condition within the year preceding their diagnosis compared to controls. But odds were also increased even five or more years earlier. “The fact that the association shows up long before diagnosis suggests we’re not just seeing two conditions that happen to co-occur,” says Dr. Faye. All types of atherosclerotic conditions were associated with increased odds of IBD, though the highest was for atherosclerosis itself—possibly, the researchers hypothesize, because patients with myocardial infarction or stroke were less likely to survive long enough to develop IBD. In addition, the odds for developing IBD were higher when two or more atherosclerotic conditions were present. “Our findings suggest that atherosclerosis prevention may be important not only to limit the development of cardiovascular disease, but also to limit the overall inflammatory burden and development of IBD,” says Dr. Faye. Although further research will be required to clarify the associations between the two conditions, he adds, these results might point toward future interventions (such as prophylactic statin administration) for patients with known risk factors for IBD. Dr. Faye has received consulting honoraria from Bristol Myers Squibb. Adam Faye, MD, MS, is an assistant professor of medicine and population health. His research focuses on the causes and treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in older adults. At NYU Langone, our dermatologists provide the highest quality of care and use the latest advanced techniques to diagnose and treat skin conditions in an atmosphere of compassion and respect. Our doctors include board-certified specialists in . We also offer specialists with expertise in allergic and contact dermatology dermatologic autoimmune diseases We are home to a leading dermatopathology laboratory accredited by the College of American Pathologists that interprets skin samples, helping our doctors to make effective diagnoses and develop tailored treatment plans. Through our Dermatology Clinical Studies Unit , we provide access to the latest clinical trials for many diseases and disorders of the skin, from complex autoimmune disorders to Clinical Trials and Research Our doctors provide patients access to the most innovative treatments through our Dermatology Clinical Studies Unit. Read More About Our Clinical Research During your first visit, your dermatologist performs a full-body examination of your skin to spot any potential problems and make a diagnosis. Your doctor discusses your condition and may recommend treatments or procedures that are best suited to your needs. Depending on the diagnosis, they may recommend medical, surgical, or cosmetic dermatology services. Our dermatologists collaborate closely with experts at NYU Langone’s , if you require further evaluation or treatment for skin cancer. If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please email dermatologyassociates@nyulangone.org for general and medical dermatology. For dermatologic surgery, call 212-263-7019 and select option 1. To refer a patient on Long Island, please call one of our Long Island physicians directly. This Dermatologist Eases Cancer-Treatment Side Effects The Art of Caring for Patients with Skin of Color NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Names New Dermatology Chief Customized Vaccine Offers New Hope for People with Melanoma Meet the Team That Conquered Skin Cancer at Its Most Complex Dermatology’s Special Focus on Patients with Skin of Color Blood Test Evaluates Effectiveness of Skin Cancer Treatment NYU Langone Receives Grant for Melanoma Research Study Finds the Body Absorbs Sunscreen Chemicals Investigators Develop Novel Blood Tests for Tumor DNA Expert Discusses Taking Care of Your Skin This Summer If Caught Early, Hair Loss Can Be Slowed or Even Reversed Treating Lumbar Spinal Stenosis in Under One Hour Richard Lau, MD Requiring only one tiny incision, a breakthrough technique for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is minimizing pain and recovery times for patients. , a clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine, is helping to pioneer the minimally invasive procedure, providing the treatment in the outpatient setting without general anesthesia in under one hour. “Minimally invasive lumbar decompression provides immense value. Patients often have little to no pain and fast recovery.” “Minimally invasive lumbar decompression provides immense value. Patients often have little to no pain and fast recovery,” Dr. Lau says. “For carefully selected patients with LSS, this technique offers an exciting opportunity to dramatically improve their troublesome symptoms.” The MILD Procedure The MILD Procedure was initially developed in 2005, Dr. Lau explains, to help treat cancer patients who developed spinal stenosis but were unable to tolerate intensive surgery due to comorbidities. In recent years, the technique has been adapted to treat select patients with LSS. Based on positive results from the MiDAS ENCORE study , the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services approved nationwide Medicare coverage of the procedure in 2017. “Since then, we’ve seen a big increase in demand,” Dr. Lau says. Backed by Robust Evidence Long-term follow up data suggest that 88 percent of patients with symptomatic LSS who undergo the procedure may be spared from open lumbar decompression surgery for at least 5 years, reflecting durable outcomes. Patients also report significant pain relief, functional improvement, and reduced pain medication usage. “Although open surgical decompression is associated with good outcomes in most patients, there may be potential complications,” Dr. Lau explains. “These can include local tissue trauma, persistent postoperative pain, and nerve damage.” There are additional concerns when treating older patients, Dr. Lau says, who often present with multiple comorbidities. Traditional spine surgery typically involves general anesthesia, and may involve a hospital stay and recovery period. “As a minimally invasive option, MILD represents a safe and effective alternative to open spine surgery—especially for select elderly patients,” Dr. Lau says. “The procedure requires no stitches, causes minimal discomfort, and has a strong safety profile, similar to that of an epidural steroid injection.” Determining Patient Candidacy To assess if a patient is a candidate, it is important to establish the diagnosis and etiology of LSS, Dr. Lau explains. This includes a detailed history and physical examination, with etiology primarily determined with imaging studies. “The most consistent finding of symptomatic LSS is the presence of neurogenic claudication, which may involve little or no pain at rest or when sitting or lying down,” Dr. Lau says. “Upon standing or walking, however, these patients experience back, buttock, and/or leg pain and report a progressive decline in their standing time and walking distance.” Dr. Lau encourages appropriate patients to undergo MILD as early as needed rather than waiting until they are at an advanced age, especially given that it’s covered by Medicare and some private payers. If providers are unsure whether a patient may be a suitable candidate, referring them for consultation is highly recommended. “This intervention can significantly impact patients’ quality of life,” Dr. Lau says. Richard Lau, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine. His clinical and research interests include minimally invasive lumbar decompression, pain management, and nerve block procedures. Two Factors Help Predict Hungry Bone Syndrome The two-point predictive scoring system can identify patients with renal hyperparathyroidism at a high risk of postparathyroidectomy HBS. The risk score includes 1 point for ALP >150 U/L and 1 point for markedly elevated PTH >1000 pg/mL. A score of 1 point confers 93.8% positive predictive value, whereas a score of 0 points would confer 100% negative predictive value. ADAPTED FROM: Endocr Pract . 2023 Nov;29(11):890-896. In a recent study published in Endocrine Practice , NYU Langone Health researchers identified two preoperative variables—serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP)—as being significantly associated with hungry bone syndrome (HBS) after parathyroidectomy for renal hyperparathyroidism. The team drew upon a decade of data to analyze the risk factors of postsurgical HBS, ultimately building a simple, 2-point scoring system based on PTH and ALP levels; the predictive algorithm identifies patients at high risk of HBS with nearly 97 percent accuracy. “Pairing this scoring system with a standardized perioperative treatment protocol has the potential to really reduce the incidence and/or severity of HBS,” says endocrinologist Melissa Sum, MD , lead author on the study. Endocrine surgeon , served as a coinvestigator of the study. “Pairing this scoring system with a standardized perioperative treatment protocol has the potential to really reduce the incidence and/or severity of HBS.” HBS, characterized by significant hypocalcemia, can occur in the postoperative period following parathyroidectomy. Rapid diagnosis and management of HBS is imperative due to the possibility of life-threatening complications, including cardiac arrhythmias and generalized seizures. While previous reports have identified markedly elevated PTH and ALP to be associated with HBS development, the model is unique in its high accuracy, simplicity and utility in predicting patients at high risk of HBS, particularly in the preoperative setting. “This is a very user-friendly tool to identify HBS that should significantly inform and improve post-operative care by enabling prevention and preemptive treatment strategies.” “This is a very user-friendly tool to identify HBS that should significantly inform and improve post-operative care by enabling prevention and preemptive treatment strategies,” Dr. Suh says. Taken together, Dr. Sum says the findings support the utility of these metrics in future attempts to create standardized perioperative treatment protocols and electronic medical system alerts. “Our model predicts HBS in the preoperative setting with very high accuracy and has immense practical application,” she says. Endocrinology, Bone Health Melissa Sum, MD, is an associate professor of medicine, medical director of NYU Langone Diabetes and Endocrine Associates, and content director for NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s endocrine module. She specializes in the treatment of disorders of calcium and bone metabolism. Illustrating for Clearer Communication in Medicine Michael B. Natter, MD, uses art to help explain treatment to patients. Artist and endocrinologist Michael B. Natter, MD , is an advocate for the use of sketching to commit to memory details about anatomy, pathophysiology, and more. Inspired to pursue endocrinology due to his own experience with type 1 diabetes, he says his passion for art has served as a learning tool throughout his medical career, and he frequently turns to drawing as a means of communication during patient visits. Here, Dr. Natter gives his perspective on the role of art in medicine and how mixing the two has made him a better physician. A Diagnosis and A Discovery Can you talk about your personal experience with diabetes? How has it inspired you to pursue a career in medicine, and in endocrinology specifically? Dr. Natter: Just two weeks after my ninth birthday, I got very sick and no one knew what was going on. I was rushed to the hospital and found to have diabetes; I was in diabetic ketoacidosis. I was in the ICU for a couple of weeks, and I remember it being incredibly scary. But it also was eye-opening. It sparked my fascination with medicine and with this beautiful symphony that takes place in our bodies that was, in my case, broken. Studying for hours on end can be very isolating. I traded my notebooks for sketchbooks and drew everything I could.” Within endocrinology, I was drawn to the opportunity to form those longitudinal relationships with patients that you see again and again, ultimately pursuing it as my specialty. Mixing Art and Medicine When did you discover your interest in art, and when did you begin to connect it to your interest in medicine? I studied fine art as an undergraduate, doing large-scale charcoal drawings, figure drawings, and still lifes. I was always interested in medicine and anatomy, but I didn’t start practicing medical illustrations until I was in my post-bac program. In those classes, I would draw to learn anatomy, doodling in the margins. Then I would take the test, and all I could remember were my doodles—and it all clicked. Studying for hours on end can be very isolating. I wanted to do something I enjoyed while studying, so I traded my notebooks for sketchbooks and drew everything I could. To my surprise, I started doing better in my classes. Sketches, Comics, and More You now produce and sell your medical artwork regularly. Is there an overarching focus or theme? What are some of your favorite illustrations? My art falls into one of three buckets. The didactic bucket includes the art I created when teaching myself medicine, and the art I now create when teaching medicine to my colleagues, medical students, or patients. It’s not the product that’s important, but the process that a provider takes with the patient that’s so powerful.” There’s the cathartic bucket for graphic novel-type pieces or comics. These are funny or poke fun at some of the insecurities that we experience as we go through medical training. There’s one illustration of what would be me with a Foley catheter and an IV drip of coffee, which pokes fun at the ridiculousness of residency hours. The third bucket is my fine art that, unfortunately, I’ve done less of since starting medicine because the timing has been tough. A cartoon illustrating the main functions of the heart. A sketch of the heart overlaying an electrocardiogram. An illustration of three common mechanisms underlying hypercalcemia and key treatments. An illustration of five key considerations for headache. An illustration of conditions that tend to be misdiagnosed as hepatic encephalopathy due to their ability to suppress consciousness. Art as a Process, Not a Product How can incorporating art into your medical practice help patients with diabetes, and those with other chronic medical conditions? With chronic illness, especially with conditions like diabetes, you need to have agency and understand the pathophysiology. You need to understand what’s wrong with your pancreas, with your system, with whatever is wrong. For a patient to understand that pathophysiology, a lot of it falls on us as physicians to educate. The common language is images. You don’t need to speak Spanish to draw a picture. There’s something magical that happens when I meet a patient for the first time that has diabetes. I always ask them, “Can you tell me what your understanding is of your diabetes?” From there, I’m able to build. Very often, I’m pulling out my sketch pad and drawing for them. People in the medical world say, “Well, I can’t draw. I’m not an artist.” It’s not the product that’s important, but the process that a provider takes with the patient that’s so powerful. You’re creating rapport, and you’re showing them that you’re taking the time to help them understand—that’s very powerful. When you are discussing as you’re drawing, I really do think you’re able to get a better understanding from the learner. More Than Your Title How have other physicians responded to your art? I’ve had the opportunity to work with colleagues in dermatology, nephrology, and other fields on medical illustrations for publications. That’s been really fun. For a lot of adults, there’s this idea of identifying only as one thing. In medicine, I think we become our physician identity, but there’s so much more to us that is valuable, important, and worth celebrating. It’s important that we acknowledge and talk about those aspects of ourselves. Not only because it makes us more human, but also because I believe it makes us better doctors. Michael B. Natter, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of medicine. He specializes in the treatment of diabetes and disorders of the endocrine system. Diabetes & Endocrinology Early Time-Restricted Feeding Improves Metabolic Outcomes A schematic of the dietary interventions used in the study. Ten participants with prediabetes and obesity were randomized 1:1 to either one week of a usual feeding pattern or one week of an eTRF pattern, after which they crossed over to the alternate arm for one additional week. B, breakfast; L, lunch; D, dinner. ADAPTED FROM: Bruno, J. (2023, June 15-18). The Time-Restricted Feeding Effects on Inflammation and Obesity (TRIO) Study [Conference Presentation]. ENDO 2023. Chicago, IL, United States. Compared to a usual feeding pattern, eTRF significantly reduces glycemic variation and hyperglycemia, defined as the percent of time with blood glucose (BG) levels above 140 mg/dL. These effects were independent of weight loss. Early time-restricted feeding (eTRF) may be a useful dietary strategy for diabetes prevention and improving glycemic outcomes, according to a new study presented at the Endocrine Society’s 2023 annual meeting “eTRF is a form of intermittent fasting that involves restricting calories to the early hours of the day,” says study lead author Joanne Bruno, MD, PhD, an endocrinology fellow at NYU Langone Health. “This feeding strategy, through its effect on blood glucose levels, may prevent those with prediabetes or obesity from progressing to type 2 diabetes.” “This feeding strategy may prevent those with prediabetes or obesity from progressing to type 2 diabetes.” Joanne Bruno, MD, PhD For their study, the researchers compared eTRF (80 percent of calories consumed before 1:00PM) to a usual feeding pattern (50 percent of calories consumed after 4:00PM) among 10 participants with prediabetes and obesity. Food was provided to meet the patients’ caloric needs for weight maintenance to determine the weight-independent effects of this strategy and patients wore continuous glucose monitors throughout the study. The study is the first to evaluate the effects of eTRF on glycemia and inflammation independent of weight loss. “We decreased the time these individuals were having high blood glucose levels with just one week of eTRF feeding.” Jose O. Aleman, MD, PhD “We decreased the time these individuals were having high blood glucose levels with just one week of eTRF feeding,” says study senior author José O. Alemán, MD, PhD , an assistant professor of medicine. “The findings show that eating a majority of one’s calories earlier in the day reduces the time that the blood glucose is elevated, thereby improving metabolic health.” Endocrinology, Adult Hospital Medicine Jose O. Aleman, MD, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine. His clinical and research interests include weight management, metabolism, and insulin resistance. Joanne Bruno, MD, PhD, is an endocrinology fellow within the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism. Presenters at the 2024 ACC Scientific Sessions On April 6 to 8, researchers and physicians from NYU Langone Heart joined colleagues from around the world at the American College of Cardiology 2024 Scientific Sessions in Atlanta. During this year’s ACC Scientific Sessions, , will be honored with the 2024 Bernadine Healy Leadership in Women’s CV Disease award. This prestigious recognition celebrates individuals who have made significant contributions to advancing cardiovascular care for women, underscoring their dedication and impact in the field. Below are just a few of the notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Saturday, April 6 The Association Between Air Pollution and In-Hospital Myocardial Infarction Outcomes in a Nationwide Dataset Session 1246: Ischemic Heart Disease: Population Science 03 Luke Bonanni, 11:45AM–12:30PM Sunday, April 7 Breakthrough Therapies: A Year in Review Session 683: Breakthrough Therapies, the Year in Review: Joint Symposium of the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions and the American College of Cardiology 8:30–9:45AM Cardiometabolic Risk Factor Burden and Circulating Biomarkers in Patients with Chronic Coronary Disease in the ISCHEMIA Trials Session 1372–1372: Prevention and Health Promotion: Diabetes and Cardiometabolic Disease 09 Carine Hamo, MD Wenbo Wu, PhD Rebecca Anthopolos Sripal Bangalore, MD Kelly V. Ruggles, PhD 10:15–11:00AM Perceived Usability of Mobile Health Cardiac Rehabilitation Among Older Adults Session 1422–1422: Innovation, Digital Health, and Technology 12 Kirra Borrello, Camila Johanek, Samrachana Adhikari, PhD Jonathan H. Whiteson, PhD Barbara J. George, EdD Gregory J. Sweeney, DPT Antoinette M. Schoenthaler, EdD , Pavel Placido, John A. Dodson, MD, MPH 1:15–2:00PM Visual Estimates of Coronary Slow Flow Are Not Associated with Invasive Wire-Based Diagnosis of Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction Session 1078: Ischemic Heart Disease: What’s New in Assessment of IHD Kenneth Harkin, Ethan Loftspring, Amanda Joa, Ayman Farid, MD Claudia C. Serrano-Gomez, MD 2:15–2:25PM Getting to the Heart of the Problem—Challenges with Diagnosing Heart Failure from the Electronic Health Record Session 1464: Heart Failure and Cardiomyopathies: Population Science 14 Sharon Klein, Talia Nadel, Saul B. Blecker, MD 3:15–4:00PM Monday, April 8 The (Left) Main Event: If You’re Going to Use Imaging Somewhere Session 733: Intravascular Imaging for Complex Cases: Left Main, Multi-Vessel Disease, Calcium and CTO 11:15–11:25AM 2024 Bernadine Healy Leadership in Women’s CV Disease NYU Langone Recipient: Session: Convocation and Reception 4:00–6:00PM Nursing Home Nighttime Noise Levels: Lessons from COVID-19 Before COVID-19-related restrictions were introduced in March of 2020, the mean nighttime noise level across 6 units in 2 NYC nursing home facilities ranged from 40 to 51 decibels (dB). After restrictions were implemented, those levels rose to 44 to 57 dB. ADAPTED FROM: JAMDA . 2021 May;22:P974-976. Controlling the spread of COVID-19 in nursing homes was greatly complicated by asymptomatic carriers, atypical symptoms, and the frequency of close contact between staff and residents. In March 2020, the CDC implemented multiple restrictions in a bid to limit the spread of COVID-19 in those care settings, including restricting all visitors and nonessential personnel and canceling communal dining and group activities. As part of a larger research effort in New York City nursing homes to improve residents’ sleep/wake patterns , researchers at NYU Langone Health and their collaborators compared changes in nighttime noise before and after implementation of the 2020 COVID-19-related restrictions. Previous research had linked higher noise levels to poor sleep and more behavioral disturbance among residents. The new study, published in Journal of the American Medical Directors Association and led by , director of the Division of Geriatrics and Palliative care, found that nighttime noise levels abruptly increased after the CDC-recommended restrictions. Data collected from noise-monitoring devices on six units in two nursing homes showed a significant increase in noise at all locations within one facility and about half of all locations within the second facility. Those changes persisted for months. Isolation from family and friends, the absence of normal recreational activities, and changes in care providers due to illness of regular staff may have contributed to altered sleep and more noise, says study coauthor and geriatric nursing specialist Abraham A. Brody, PhD . “Simply put, nursing homes were turned on their head. They were struggling to provide care and stay afloat with both residents and staff getting sick.” “You can’t just attack this problem at one time of day. It takes a concerted holistic effort. Simple environmental modifications can have huge effects on outcomes and our job is to help get that implemented across practice settings nationwide.” Dr. Brody says one lasting lesson is the importance of the 24-hour sleep cycle. “You can’t just attack this problem at one time of day. It takes a concerted holistic effort. Simple environmental modifications can have huge effects on outcomes, and our job is to help get that implemented across practice settings nationwide.” Abraham A. Brody, PhD, RN, FAAN Geriatrics, Palliative Care Abraham A. Brody, PhD, RN, FAAN, is a professor of medicine, the Mathy Mezey Professor of Geriatric Nursing and associate director of the Hartford Institute for Geriatric Nursing. He specializes in the intersection of geriatrics, palliative care, quality, and equity. Heart Surgery Chasing Down Complications of Untreated Infective Endocarditis Case exemplifies the need for suspicion of IE in patients with underlying valvular defects. MINOCA: Precise Diagnosis Is Crucial for Women with Heart Attack An expert discusses untangling those heart attacks that disproportionately affect female patients. VIDEO: Cardiologist Dr. Harmony R. Reynolds discusses how MINOCA, a form of heart attack more common in women than men, is different from a typical heart attack, and shares new research about how imaging tests can help doctors correctly diagnose it. , conducts ongoing research into the root causes of heart attacks unassociated with obstructive coronary artery disease. With support from the American Heart Association (AHA), Dr. Reynolds is leading one of the first-ever long-term studies to utilize advanced imaging to identify the conditions behind heart attacks in predominantly female patients. Here, she provides insights on the ways in which comprehensive evaluation and diagnosis can support more targeted treatment and care of these patients. Much of your research centers on cardiac concerns of women. Can you tell us the difference between the types of ischemic heart disease that tend to impact female patients more than males? Dr. Reynolds: There are two related but distinct disorders: myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA), and ischemia with no obstructive coronary arteries (INOCA). MINOCA is now recognized as true heart attack, but without the typical clinical picture of severe coronary narrowing. Patients generally may have plaque but their arteries are less than 50 percent obstructed. It’s a heterogenous diagnosis with several pathophysiological mechanisms. Like MINOCA patients with acute coronary syndrome, patients with stable INOCA have unobstructed arteries with true ischemia, frequently presenting as chest pain. The main mechanisms of INOCA appear to be microvascular disease and coronary artery spasm. Coronary artery spasm can also cause MINOCA. In both cases, patients are often evaluated for coronary artery disease, then sent on a diagnostic odyssey once obstructive coronary artery disease is ruled out. For many patients, once we conduct the specific testing our center is equipped for, we find abnormal results that point to a root cause. “Patients are often evaluated for coronary artery disease, then sent on a diagnostic odyssey once obstructive coronary artery disease is ruled out.” How does pinpointing the specific diagnosis contribute to better cardiac outcomes for these patients? Advanded diagnostics often yield more subtle findings that can help us both prognosticate and better tailor treatment. And there’s reason to perform these targeted tests early as some findings, such as myocardial edema, are transient. The initial injury from an infarct event is much larger and more easily discoverable than the final scar, particularly in patients with MINOCA. The other benefit is psychological. Before a specific diagnosis, patients with INOCA may have been told they’re overreacting, that it’s “just stress,” but they know something’s wrong when they can’t walk two blocks without shortness of breath. When we give a name to patients’ diagnosis and recommend treatment, I often think it’s as helpful to their quality of life as prescription. The Path Toward Diagnosis What are those pecific tests, and how do they inform diagnosis and care? Timely cardiac MRI is really important in patients with MINOCA, because somewhere between 20 to 40 percent of patients may ultimately have a nonischemic diagnosis. But within ischemic injury, a significant cohort are found to be atherosclerotic. There’s a range of those findings, from large, dense infarct to myocardial regional edema, an early sign of injury with no late gadolinium enhancement. For those patients with ischemic MINOCA, we tailor secondary measures to prevent another event. When there is atherosclerotic plaque rupture or erosion on coronary optical coherence tomography (OCT)—which uses light to image blood vessel walls—we take typical secondary prevention measures, just as in typical heart attack. Only imaging from inside the vessel wall provides enough detail to see that plaque has ruptured or has erosion. Only having some plaque present is not enough to cause an event. For up to two thirds of patients with MINOCA, OCT combined with MRI identifies a pattern suggestive of coronary artery spasm, which significantly impacts care. Observational studies indicate that calcium channel blockers can reduce mortality in this patient subset, and we typically prescribe long-acting nitrates as well. In INOCA, our interventional cardiologists have conducted studies examining the role of invasive testing, such as index of micro-circulatory resistance, which indicates resistance problems in the microvasculature, and measurement of coronary flow reserve. We perform spasm testing, available at only a few centers nationwide, to create individualized treatment plans for patients. For those who prefer noninvasive testing, we combine cardiac MRI with positron emission tomography (PET), for a highly valid diagnosis of microvascular disease. Gender, Genes, and Other Causes Is it well understood why women experience these nditions more frequently than men? One theory involves estrogen receptor signaling; whether hormone expression could trigger the cascade of cardiovascular changes that trigger MINOCA or INOCA. In our AHA-funded program studying myocardial infarction in women, we performed whole blood RNA sequencing on a group of women with MINOCA, identifying unique pathways that are differentially regulated in those patients as compared to heart attack patients with coronary disease and controls. The other question is, are women expressing their symptoms differently? To what degree do home and family care responsibilities perhaps provoke more chest pain with less coronary disease or ischemia? One of our natural history studies from the ISCHEMIA trial revealed that women with obstructive coronary disease had less extensive disease and more angina than men with obstructive disease. In our study of INOCA, we observed substantial variability in stress test findings and in symptoms over time. That is consistent with what we see in clinical practice, where symptoms ebb and flow. Is this related to differences in hormone programming, vascular function, or even neural control? There is still so much to learn about how ischemia relates back to symptoms in day-to-day life. Harmony R. Reynolds, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of the Sarah Ross Soter Center for Women’s Cardiovascular Research. She takes a special interest in less common heart disease syndromes that disproportionately affect women, particularly heart attack and chest pain with open arteries. Conditions We Treat Through Care on Demand providers at NYU Langone see adults who do not already have a primary care physician. We offer walk-in primary care without an appointment for nonurgent and nonemergency conditions. Conditions Our Care on Demand Providers Treat Our providers manage the following conditions: symptoms gastrointestinal issues pain—chronic or intermittent pink eye or viral illnesses such as the common cold, Conditions We Do Not Treat Please call 911 or go to the nearest location for medical emergencies such as chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, -related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in harm to yourself or others. 212-263-3991 At NYU Langone’s Nerve Center, we provide compassionate, comprehensive treatment for people who have disabilities resulting from cranial or peripheral nerve injuries or defects, whether you have been born with a congenital problem or have had an injury as a child or adult. Our team of experts in hand surgery, microsurgery, and micro-neurosurgery evaluates each person to design a treatment plan that meets your needs. In addition, we collaborate closely with NYU Langone specialists in neurology, neurosurgery, rehabilitation, and radiology to deliver comprehensive care. We treat a broad range of conditions affecting the nerves due to cranial or peripheral injury or defect. These include: facial nerve palsy or paralysis, which are facial nerve disorders affecting the muscles of the face brachial plexopathy, or injury to the brachial plexus, the network of nerves that sends signals from your spine to your shoulder, arm, and hands compression neuropathy, which occurs when nerves become compressed (the most common form is post-traumatic peripheral nerve pathology, which involves damage to your peripheral nerves, often causing weakness, numbness, and pain, usually affecting the hands and feet Our experts in hand surgery, microsurgery, and micro-neurosurgery offer advanced, personalized, and compassionate care for each patient we see. Sheel Sharma Vishal D. Thanik 516-663-1220 Long Island Vein Center The NYU Langone Long Island Vein Center provides specialized care for patients with venous conditions, including , spider and reticular veins, lipodermatosclerosis, leg swelling, , May-Thurner syndrome, pelvic congestion, and . Our mission is to provide patients with comprehensive knowledge, care, and treatment options. All procedures are performed by board-certified vascular surgeons with a passion for treating venous disease. In addition, most procedures are performed on an outpatient basis and are minimally invasive: they are done without large incisions or the need for prolonged recovery. Patients are seen and evaluated at , and procedures are performed at our Vein Center at 200 Old Country Road, Suite 120, in Mineola. Treatments for Venous Conditions Our aim is to guide patients towards the best treatment option for their individual conditions. These are some of the methods we use to treat venous conditions: thermal ablation with endovenous laser therapy or radiofrequency ablation (EVLT or RFA) nonthermal ablation with Varithena or VenaSeal stab phlebectomy, or microphlebectomy, to remove varicose veins from the surface of the legs sclerotherapy for treating spider and reticular veins venography with intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) for treatment of deep venous disease For conditions such as lymphedema or leg swelling, we evaluate, diagnose, and offer referrals for lymphedema pump therapy or lymphedema clinics for decongestive therapy. Our team of experts offers a variety of medical specialties, tests, and services. 514 49th Street, Lobby (beside the Pharmacy) Brooklyn, NY 11220 929-502-0386 In March 2023, Medicaid stopped providing the continuous coverage available during COVID-19. Many Medicaid beneficiaries must reenroll to keep coverage. Beyond Bridges at has partnered with Public Health Solutions (PHS) to provide additional Medicaid reenrollment support to the community. In-Person Reenrollment Hours In-person reenrollment support is available on Tuesdays from 9:00AM to 4:30PM. Online Reenrollment Support Online resources are available to help eligible individuals and families reenroll in Medicaid. Resources to Assist with Online Reenrollment Public Health Solutions provides step-by-step assistance in understanding health coverage options, helping eligible individuals and families obtain free or low-cost health insurance. For more information, visit Public Health Solutions To request assistance, complete the Find Services Form . One of the Public Health Solutions coordinators will connect you to your requested resources. Direct Online Reenrollment If you’d like to enroll online, visit the New York State of Health Marketplace to get started. Phone Reenrollment Support Multilingual enrollers are available to assist by calling In-Person Reenrollment Support English- and Spanish-speaking enrollers are on-site Tuesdays from 9:00AM to 4:30PM at the following location: (in the lobby, beside the pharmacy) Additional Reenrollment Support The Financial Planning Office at the can also help you renew your Medicaid eligibility. Call 718-630-8303 FHCMedicaidOffice@NYULangone.org for assistance. Patients may also contact the online or by calling 855-355-5777 514 49th Street, Lobby (beside the Pharmacy), Brooklyn, NY, 11220 English- and Spanish-speaking enrollers are on-site Tuesdays from 9:00AM to 4:30PM. , our team of geneticists, rheumatologists, and hematologists collaborates to provide unmatched care to people with VEXAS syndrome. VEXAS—the name is an acronym for vacuoles, E1 enzyme, X-linked, autoinflammatory, and somatic—syndrome is a rare, serious condition that develops in adults and causes a broad range of progressive inflammatory and hematologic symptoms, including fever, fatigue, painful skin rashes, pain and swelling of the ears and nose, shortness of breath, and low blood cell counts. Because VEXAS syndrome is a newly recognized disorder and its symptoms overlap with many common rheumatologic and hematologic conditions, it is a diagnosis often overlooked. The only reliable way to establish a VEXAS syndrome diagnosis is by genetic testing of the UBA1 gene. The diagnosis of VEXAS syndrome can lead to improvements in medical management and more-effective treatments for patients. The specialists on our multidisciplinary team—led by David B. Beck, MD, PhD , of the Beck Lab and a member of the research team that first identified VEXAS syndrome—are recognized experts in their fields, including genetics, rheumatology, and hematology. We work with you and your doctor to provide a personalized treatment plan for your specific constellation of symptoms and needs. We see patients in Manhattan at 333 East 38th Street, on the fourth floor. But whether you live locally or outside of New York City, please feel free to contact our team with any questions about VEXAS syndrome. To make an appointment or learn more about VEXAS syndrome, contact us at BeckClinic@NYULangone.org . We welcome inquiries from patients, their loved ones, and healthcare providers. Prior to your appointment, please provide the following information, which is important for our assessment: all genetic testing results, especially any that include the UBA1 gene bone marrow biopsy results any recent rheumatology and hematology provider notes and blood work results Research and Clinical Studies In addition to our goals of improving our patients’ health, care, and quality of life, our team actively conducts research and clinical studies to better understand the condition. Understanding why VEXAS syndrome occurs, its long-term effects, the genetic and molecular mechanisms of the condition, and why it presents differently across patients will help us develop new, more-effective treatments. It is helpful for people with rare conditions like VEXAS syndrome to join clinical trials because finding an adequate number of patients for effective clinical studies—as we are doing at NYU Langone’s VEXAS Syndrome Care Program—can be challenging. Learn more about our current active trial, the Autoimmune and Autoinflammatory Genetics Study , at ClinicalTrials.gov. If you are interested in being involved in research and potential clinical studies, contact Dr. Beck and our team at VEXAS Syndrome Care Program Team Gary H. Ho, MD Mei-Kay Wong, MS, MPH, CGC, CPH Jun H. Choi MD 63 Downing Street New York, NY 10014 212-255-6690 Clinical Services Physical Therapy Services for Individuals Psychological Services for Individuals Medical Services Return to Work Program Consulting Services Corporate On-Site Physical Therapy Program Corporate Stress Management Program Corporate On-Site Medical Services Corporate Ergonomics Program Product Design & Consulting NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center is an interdisciplinary center for the treatment and prevention of musculoskeletal disorders. Our scientists, educators, and clinicians have expertise in managing the physical, psychological, and work-related aspects of musculoskeletal conditions. These specialists provide treatment, research, education, and consultation services, to the community and the workforce all under one roof. VIDEO: NYU Langone patient Maria McConnell discusses how the medical team at NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center helped her recover from a severe back injury. Clinical and Consulting Services As consultants to industry, labor, and government organizations—including Google, the United Nations, and Con Edison—we have implemented numerous successful programs aimed at preventing disability in the workplace. We combine therapeutic and medical technology with the expertise of specialists from NYU Langone Health. At the Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center, organizations have access to complete medical and diagnostic services, physical therapy, pain and stress management, and ergonomic workplace evaluation and accommodations. Our clinical services are designed to return workers to their pre-injury work status and everyday activities. Our patient-centered approach uses education and goal-oriented care to create a partnership that empowers patients to become active participants in their care. Our clinic offers ergonomics services Our consulting services include a corporate physical therapy program product design and evaluation Our physical therapists help the people they treat return to daily activities after injury or surgery. Ka Hing Chow ZD Zihao Du DPT, PT Dina Shah Innovations and advances in the treatment offered at Rusk Rehabilitation have set the standard in rehabilitation care for every stage of life and every phase of recovery. We offer expert treatment for a wide range of bone and joint conditions, paying special attention to patient comfort and convenience. We offer comprehensive treatment for the full spectrum of spinal disorders, so you can return to your normal activities. We have one of the largest orthopedic surgery programs in the country, providing care to tens of thousands of patients each year—from infants to older adults. 63 Downing Street, New York, NY, 10014 212-255-6754 Parking Metered parking spots are available along 6th and 7th Avenues. Other parking can be found on side streets. Please be sure to check posted signs for street cleaning and alternate side parking rules. There are also several parking garages located near Downing Street. We are open Monday through Thursday, 8:00AM to 7:00PM, and Friday, 8:00AM to 5:00PM Rethinking Diabetes Prevention in Older Adults Study tests digital innovation against traditional prevention programs for older patients. Taking a BOLD Step for Early Dementia Detection CDC-funded center will create national platform for sharing new initiatives. Managing Atrial Fibrillation in Older Patients Specialists in geriatric cardiology call for greater attention to asymptomatic atrial fibrillation. Refining Trauma Care to Better Serve Older Adults A pilot program explores strategies to return more geriatric patients home safely. Findings Support Elective Paraesophageal Hernia Repair in Elderly Patients Large outcomes study signals a shift from watchful to operative management of PEHs in older adults. Classifying Glioma in Minutes VR Provides Precision View in Cranial Bypass Study finds virtual reality holds broad potential for neurosurgical bypass planning. Mapping the Neural Networks Behind One-Shot Perceptual Learning Collaborative research aims to deepen understanding of perceptual dysfunction—and to test a new paradigm for AI. Researchers Launch World’s Largest Public Database of Brain Tumor Scans Unique database combines longitudinal imaging with artificial intelligence tools to mine data and assess cancer progression. Presenters at the 2023 AANS Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health neurosurgeons joined international colleagues in Los Angeles, April 21–24. Stiff-Person Syndrome: A Challenging Diagnosis After multiple ineffective surgeries, neurologists pinpoint the rare condition and a potential medical treatment. Resecting a Pediatric Tracheal Tumor with Robotic Surgery With only 15 percent of the airway patent, treatment also required debulking via rigid bronchoscopy. A CT scan of the tracheal tumor. Fortuitous CT Reveals Hidden Tracheal Tumor A pediatric patient with a large tracheal tumor is cancer free after specialists at NYU Langone Health and Perlmutter Center teamed up to safely diagnose and resect the unusual growth. The patient presented to the pediatric intensive care unit at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital for respiratory sequelae initially attributed to COVID-19 when the mass was detected by CT. “This team worked together seamlessly, drawing on every person’s expertise and strengths to do the best thing for the patient,” says , an interventional pulmonologist assisting on the case. “We enjoy seeing each other work at such a high level.” “This team worked together seamlessly, drawing on every person’s expertise and strengths to do the best thing for the patient.” The mass emanated into the trachea from the posterior wall and blocked roughly 85 percent of the airway. The best treatment was determined to be surgical resection, but a biopsy was performed first to rule out lymphoma or other conditions not requiring major surgery. Dr. Bessich and pediatric pulmonologist , performed the biopsy using rigid bronchoscopy, chosen over flexible bronchoscopy for the ability to ventilate the airway. During the procedure, ablative therapy was also administered to excise a large portion of the tumor and minimize any risk of obstruction before surgery. “This was the youngest patient I’d ever seen with a tracheal mass, and it was the second youngest patient I’d ever performed a rigid bronchoscopy on,” says Dr. Bessich. When the biopsy confirmed that surgery was required, the patient was immediately scheduled, with pediatric surgeon , placing the patient on venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VV ECMO) and thoracic surgeon , chief of clinical thoracic surgery, performing the minimally invasive operation. “We are one of only a few centers in the world that can do this without opening the chest and on ECMO.” “We are one of only a few centers in the world that can do this without opening the chest and on ECMO,” says Dr. Cerfolio. Pathology and genetic analyses ultimately determined the tumor to be a low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma. With no signs of metastasis, it is unlikely that radiation or chemotherapy will be required. A Fortuitous CT Scan An 11-year-old patient was admitted to NYU Langone Health for symptoms attributed to severe COVID-19 when a large tracheal tumor was detected by CT. The mass left the airway only 15 percent patent and vulnerable to obstruction. Rigid bronchoscopy was performed to collect a specimen for biopsy and debulk the tumor. Determining the Best Approach to Treatment Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, performing the robotic surgery for tracheal resection and reconstruction. The pathology report ruled out conditions amenable to non-surgical treatment, confirming the need for tumor resection, and the patient was immediately scheduled for surgery. A Robotic Tracheal Reconstruction Supported by ECMO Surgeon’s view during the robotic tracheal resection and reconstruction. The minimally invasive robotic surgery involved removing the section of the trachea with the tumor and rejoining the two ends for reconstruction. Excellent Planning, an Efficient Surgery, and No Metastasis Jason C. Fisher, MD (left), and Robert J. Cerfolio, MD (right), in the operating room. The surgery was completed in 1 hour and 30 mins, and the patient was extubated the same day and breathing on her own within hours. Results from the NYU Langone FUSION-SEQer test confirmed the mass to be a low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma and imaging revealed no signs of metastasis. Jamie L. Bessich, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and cardiothoracic surgery and the interim section chief of Interventional Pulmonology. Her research focuses on diagnosing lung neoplasms and lymph nodes using endoscopic ultrasound and advanced bronchoscopic techniques. Leading the Way in Breast Surgical Oncology Mary L. Gemignani, MD, MPH. Source: NYU Langone Health. Mary L. Gemignani, MD, MPH , an acclaimed surgeon and expert in treating breast cancer, was recently named chief of the breast surgery division at NYU Langone Health’s . She is also a member of the With nearly three decades of experience, she has held several leadership positions and made numerous contributions to the field in both research and education. Here, Dr. Gemignani shares her perspective on leadership and training, spotlights key advancements in the field, and discusses her goals for improving the care of young women with cancer. The Value of Strong Leadership Dr. Gemignani , what motivated you to take on leadership roles in your field? Dr. Gemignani: In today’s healthcare landscape, the need for strong leadership is greater than ever, as it is essential for delivering high-quality patient care. The rapid advancement of clinical technologies like robotics, artificial intelligence, and precision medicine warrants the ability to assess how to successfully incorporate and leverage these innovations. When a healthcare team is not working together effectively, or lacks direction, patients often pay the price. Understanding this early in my career, I wanted to make a difference. The field of oncology, specifically women’s health and breast cancer, captured my attention in medical school. For the past two decades, my focus has been leading multidisciplinary teams in a variety of research and educational initiatives. What are your plans for education and surgical training at NYU Langone? Great question. It’s an exciting time to be an educator in surgical oncology—the landscape of education has changed to include roles and opportunities that expand beyond the operating room. I’m thrilled that we’ve been able to attract the best and brightest medical students and physicians to our field. Early exposure to the field of oncology can spark students’ interest in becoming a cancer physician. “The field of surgery is becoming more multidisciplinary, and the traditional authoritative leadership approach of surgeons is no longer acceptable.” Mary Gemignani, MD, MPH One of my passions is training future leaders. As I previously mentioned, strong leadership is essential for delivering high-quality patient care. For almost 15 years, I directed one of the nation’s leading breast surgery fellowship programs, which produced many of the leaders in the field today. The field of surgery is becoming more multidisciplinary, and the traditional authoritative leadership approach of surgeons is no longer acceptable. I took a unique approach to training by ensuring my students gained more than just surgical skills. One example is by providing leadership-specific feedback, as current feedback mechanisms largely focus on clinical or technical skills. It is crucial to provide formative feedback to reinforce positive leadership behaviors and correct problematic ones. Here, I plan to do the same. Advancements in Estrogen-Receptor-Positive Breast Cancer You’ve been a breast surgeon for about 25 years. From your perspective, what is the key research area pushing the field forward? There is such a diversity—it’s really hard to pick just one. In the domain of imaging, the FDA recently approved the use of 18F-fluoroestradiol/positron-emission tomography (FES/PET) for patients with estrogen-receptor-positive (ER+) recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. My team published on the feasibility of the technique before it was commercialized by a biotech company. This advancement significantly improves our ability to stage ER+ cancer. While targeted therapy is effective for patients with ER+ disease, the evaluation of ER expression with immunohistochemical staining of biopsy samples is limited by factors such as sampling error, false negatives, and difficulties accessing biopsy sites. Serving as an adjunct to biopsy, FES helps to identify a target lesion for confirmatory biopsy, provide in vivo evaluation of biopsy-proven ER+ disease, and assess spatial and temporal ER heterogeneity. As experience with the tracer grows, expanded indications are possible, including use as a predictive biomarker for targeted therapy. Supporting Young Women Who Have Cancer In addition to pursuing clinical advancements, you are dedicated to promoting holistic care, especially for young women with cancer. Can you tell us more about this work? Yes. At my previous institution, I was co-director of the Young Women with Breast Cancer program, offering a full spectrum of care, support, education, and research for young women diagnosed with this disease. Young women with breast cancer—aged 45 or younger—face unique challenges, including interruption of work or school, treatment-related infertility, and issues with disruption of parental responsibilities. We conducted research to uncover the most pressing issues that hold significance for this population. I am now working to ensure that our care delivery prioritizes and effectively addresses those issues patients find most important. “The impact of treatment on fertility is important to young women; they value the ability to pursue fertility-preserving options.” In a similar vein—my research interests extend to quality of life studies and patient-reported outcomes, specifically focusing on minimizing the side effects of treatment in young women with breast cancer. A good example is cytotoxic chemotherapy—investigating the types of chemotherapy, their doses, and treatment durations that result in the least amount of gonadal toxicity. The impact of treatment on fertility is important to young women; they value the ability to pursue fertility-preserving options. Elevating Care, Expanding Access What are your top priorities as you step into your new role? In my new role, I’m excited to work with other leaders across NYU Langone to continue to standardize the delivery of breast surgical care and expand access to clinical trials at all sites, including those in Brooklyn and on Long Island. Bringing my experience to a larger health system, I’m also excited about the opportunity to collaborate with other leaders within the organization. Take NYU Langone’s , where our patients, particularly young women with breast cancer, have access to the latest techniques for fertility preservation. Working together we can improve the quality of life for those patients during and after treatment. Alone, I cannot achieve all of my research goals. Here, we have a unique opportunity to bring together the best and brightest from a variety of disciplines. Mary L. Gemignani, MD, MPH, is chief of the breast surgery division at Perlmutter Cancer Center and a member of the Department of Surgery. She specializes in breast cancer surgery. NYU Langone Health Presenters at COSM 2024 See the experts from NYU Langone Health who are joining international colleagues in Chicago, May 15 to 19. Improving Music Perception in Cochlear Implant Users An auditory scientist searches for potential solutions by studying patients with single-sided deafness. No Link Found Between Bell’s Palsy & COVID-19 Vaccination An analysis of over 20 million vaccinated patients finds a higher facial paralysis risk with COVID-19 infection, but not with vaccination. Building Capacity for Hearing Loss Care in Uganda Testing In-Office Tissue Regeneration for Eardrum Perforations New study explores minimally invasive procedure with novel growth factor to heal tympanic membrane perforations. Ramping Up Research for Metastatic Cancers Jonathan T. Yang, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health. Radiation oncologist and clinical trials leader Jonathan T. Yang, MD, PhD , has joined NYU Langone Health’s as director of clinical research at the . He also serves as associate vice chair of clinical research and developmental therapeutics in the Dr. Yang has been at the forefront of driving innovation in the treatment of metastatic cancers and central nervous system (CNS) malignancies, leading several pivotal studies in leptomeningeal metastases (LM), systemic metastatic disease, and primary brain tumors. Here, Physician Focus speaks with Dr. Yang about the latest developments in metastatic disease and CNS malignancies. He also discusses upcoming clinical trials, two of which are set to open at Perlmutter Cancer Center later this year. Proton Therapy for Leptomeningeal Metastasis Dr. Yang, you recently presented encouraging data from a phase 2 trial suggesting that proton therapy is more effective than conventional radiation at treating LM. Why are these results important, and what’s next for this work? Dr. Yang: Exciting progress has been made in the treatment of LM. Prior to our study, photon involved-field radiotherapy was the standard of care for patients with LM from solid tumors. Although the choices have traditionally been limited for LM, we now have a better option—proton craniospinal irradiation —for a disease that is notoriously difficult to treat. “With the arrival of proton therapy, LM can be detected and be effectively treated earlier in its disease course, allowing patients to live longer without neurologic compromise.” While conventional radiotherapy effectively treats local symptoms, craniospinal irradiation treats the entire leptomeningeal compartment. Protons deposit the bulk of their energy at the last few millimeters of their range, leading to significantly less toxicity Furthermore, advancements in imaging technology novel cerebrospinal fluid diagnostic tools have enabled better detection of LM. So now, with the arrival of proton therapy, LM can be detected and be effectively treated earlier in its disease course, allowing patients to live longer without neurologic compromise. Building on these findings, we’re analyzing molecular data from patients to pinpoint biomarkers that can aid in patient selection. We also plan to validate these results in a larger group of patients in an upcoming national trial. Trailblazing in Clinical Trials Beyond LM, what other promising trials are on the horizon? There are several in progress, but I’ll highlight two. The first is a phase 1 trial evaluating AZD1390 , an ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase inhibitor, in combination with radiotherapy for patients with glioblastoma. Despite efforts to improve survival in glioblastoma, a backbone of radiotherapy with or without temozolomide has remained the standard of care for the past two decades. AZD1390 showed promising preclinical results by offering antitumor effects without worsening radiotherapy toxicity in the healthy brain tissue. At the AACR Annual Meeting 2024, I presented early safety and efficacy results for the combination approach, showcasing its potential utility as a radiosensitizing treatment in glioblastoma. I am continuing to work with the sponsor in not only the development of AZD1390 with radiotherapy in brain tumors, but also in systemic metastatic disease, for which we are in the process of opening a trial here at NYU Langone. The second is a national trial that will investigate the use of prophylactic radiation therapy—compared with standard of care—for asymptomatic, high-risk bone metastases. In most cases, radiation therapy is utilized to treat painful bone metastases, but we’re interested in examining the potential advantages of a proactive strategy. The study protocol, which builds upon a previous phase 2 trial , is currently being finalized, with plans to open later this year. What excites you about combining targeted therapy with radiotherapy? Drug–radiotherapy combinations have reached a defining moment. With multiple trials in progress, we’re on the cusp of breakthroughs, but still working towards overcoming obstacles and improving patient outcomes. “Drug-radiotherapy combinations have reached a defining moment. With multiple trials in progress, we’re on the cusp of breakthroughs.” To overcome barriers, such as the perceived impracticality of conventional regulatory end points and comparatively more-limited collaborations among sponsors and radiation oncologists, we’ll have to prioritize communication among key stakeholders. In addition, there is still a considerable amount of work needed to reduce attrition rates of novel radiosensitizers in the clinic. In a nutshell, we’re not quite there yet, but we’re moving in the right direction. Opening the Doors to Collaboration Looking ahead, what are your plans for the next three to five years? We plan to open more clinical trials. To achieve this goal, we plan to pursue further public and private research funding, strengthen relationships with our industry partners, and build collaborations with experts within and outside of the cancer center. Our main focus will be on developing novel therapeutic strategies for primary brain tumors and systemic metastatic disease. Health outcomes studies, particularly those incorporating quality of life assessments, will also be a priority. In addition, we will further enhance our understanding of tumor biology through investigation of genomics and changes to the tumor microenvironment in the setting of novel therapeutics. This will help us to better personalize treatments. Unlike standalone cancer centers, Perlmutter Cancer Center’s placement within a larger healthcare system offers unique opportunities for research collaborations. Few institutions prioritize research to the level that NYU Langone does. Jonathan T. Yang, MD, PhD, is the associate vice chair of clinical research and developmental therapeutics in the Department of Radiation Oncology and director of clinical research at the Brain and Spine Tumor Center, part of Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in treating metastatic cancers and CNS malignancies using advanced radiation techniques. Dr. Alec Kimmelman On Highlights from AACR 2024 Hot topics included personalized medicine, CRISPR, healthcare disparities, and liquid biopsies. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 ASCO Annual Meeting Meet the cancer experts joining international colleagues in Chicago from May 31 to June 4. Bevacizumab Biosimilar Could Drive Up Costs New study finds an anti-VEGF biosimilar could increase costs to patients and the healthcare system. Panfacial Necrosis Reported in Immunodeficient Patients with Mpox Mpox manifestations in patients with untreated HIV/AIDS bear striking resemblance to progressive vaccinia. Challenging Old Ideas About Retinal Band 2 Visible light OCT reveals that the region’s association with mitochondria needs rethinking. A New Model for Studying Corneal Diseases Experimental organoid-based system could offer a leap forward for research into blinding corneal diseases. AI Predicts Outcomes & Treatment Frequency for Retinal Vein Occlusion In patients treated for macular edema with intravitreal aflibercept, AI may provide insights into personalized treatments. Mobile App Takes Vision-Based Testing Onsite Digital version of Rapid Automized Naming could have broad neurological applications. Rapid Automized Naming (RAN) tasks have shown strong potential in the assessment of a variety of neurologic disorders. One RAN task, the Mobile Universal Lexicon Evaluation System (MULES) test, has also been shown to accurately detect sports-related concussion in a sideline setting, when used in conjunction with the Staggered Uneven Number (SUN) test. Laura J. Balcer, MD, MSCE , lead the NYU Langone Health team that developed both the MULES and SUN tests. They recently partnered with Marc J. Balcer, MS, a software developer and Dr. Balcer’s brother, to create a mobile version of the tests. The is optimized for use on a tablet device, allowing for greater flexibility in onsite testing. “Because it is portable, the MICK app has important implications for scalability, applicability and accessibility of RAN tasks to assess patients with neurologic disease, perhaps even remotely from the office setting,” says Dr. Balcer. “The MICK app has important implications for scalability, applicability and accessibility of RAN tasks to assess patients with neurologic disease.” Sideline Concussion Analysis MULES and SUN were developed in partnership with NYU Langone’s , where Drs. Balcer and Galetta have been involved in decades-long research on the use of rapid number naming , rapid picture naming and laboratory-based eye tracking in the diagnosis and sideline assessment of sports-related concussion “Most studies that assess neurologic function have concentrated on walking and maybe cognition, despite the enormous importance of vision,” explains Dr. Galetta. “These tests help assess the many visual pathways in the brain affected by a concussion, and how we can better examine and treat athletes and other patients.” MULES reflects 80 years of literature on RAN tests that assess vision and cognitive performance; the newer SUN test also captures eye movement, concentration, and visual processing. “MULES and SUN are based on a long continuum of research into the biological underpinnings of neurologic injury,” Dr. Galetta says. “These tests help assess the many visual pathways in the brain affected by a concussion, and how we can better examine and treat athletes and other patients.” Building and Testing a Mobile Option Dr. Balcer remarks that invention comes naturally to her and her brother, Mark – their father, “Mick,” was a civil engineer. “In addition to portability for clinical assessment, we wanted to create a mobile testing option that would provide widespread access for research, the potential for data sharing, and integration into electronic medical records,” she says. “We also wanted it to be free to anyone. Grateful patients have started a fund to make this possible.” A new study Journal of the Neurological Sciences compares the digital version of the MULES and SUN tests in the MICK app with the current paper versions. The MICK app format demonstrated excellent agreement of time scores with paper-pencil testing among adult volunteers. Additionally, the team has completed pilot testing with Yeshiva University, and the Michigan State University and Penn State University football teams are testing the app to compare baseline and sideline data. Broadening Applications Beyond concussion, the team is using the MULES and SUN tests to aid in detection of other neurologic disorders. “We’ve found that the MULES test in particular can separate patients from controls who have multiple sclerosis, , and more recently those who have mild cognitive impairment related to Alzheimer’s disease versus those with normal aging,” says Dr. Balcer. The military has shown interest in using the MICK app for traumatic brain injury . Navy Seals who are now NYU Grossman School of Medicine students will be working with the team to study the viability of the technology in the field. MULES has also been tested in cohorts of post-call residents and COVID-19 survivors “We have seen that picture naming differentiates people who’ve had COVID with those who haven’t had COVID,” Dr. Balcer notes. “This may reflect cognitive impairment, in part.” “We’re excited about the many prospects ahead for this application,” Dr. Galetta says. “As neuro-ophthalmologists, we try to fill the gap between where the optic nerve begins and how it projects to the brain. It is important that physicians understand how visual dysfunction may be indicative of neurologic disease.” Laura J. Balcer, MD Laura J. Balcer, MD, MSCE, is a professor of neurology, ophthalmology, and population health, and vice chair of the Department of Neurology. She specializes in evaluating and treating patients with visual symptoms related to disorders of the optic nerve and brain, including multiple sclerosis, concussion, and other neurologic conditions. Her research focuses on development of clinical outcome measures for vision in neurologic disease. Including the Optic Nerve Could Boost Early MS Diagnosis Advanced imaging provides mounting evidence for updating MS diagnostic criteria. PHOTO: Science Source Current international diagnostic criteria for multiple sclerosis (MS) do not include the optic nerve as an imaging lesion site, despite the high prevalence of acute optic neuritis (ON) among early MS patients. Since the latest evaluation of these criteria in 2017, neuro-ophthalmologists , have been adding to the evidence for incorporation of the optic nerve into MS diagnostics. “About 25 percent of MS patients have ON as their first manifestation. However, research that patients who present with spinal cord or brainstem lesions on MRI typically progress to MS, left people with ON at a disadvantage. Their lesions in the optic nerve weren’t counted,” Dr. Galetta says. Studies have suggested that inter-eye differences in retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, as measured by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), optimize identification of people with a history of ON “Imaging the optic nerve with OCT is more sensitive for indicating there’s been a demyelinating event,” Dr. Balcer says. “In a younger person, there are a limited number of entities besides MS that could cause thinning of the axonal layer.” “About 25 percent of MS patients have ON as their first manifestation.” Building the Case for Inclusion foundational study in 2017 , Dr. Balcer and colleagues established the validity of low-contrast letter acuity (LCLA) as a visual performance outcome measure for MS over high-contrast visual acuity, which has been used for decades. Deficits in LCLA and vision-specific quality of life are found many years after an episode of acute ON, even when high-contrast visual acuity has recovered. Several further studies have aided in determining optimal thresholds for inter-eye differences in retinal layer thickness that are most predictive of a unilateral optic nerve lesion. single-center analysis comparing healthy volunteers to people with MS, and then in a multicenter study with the International MS Visual System Consortium , the researchers confirmed inter-eye differences of 5μm for the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (pRNFL) and 4μm for the macular ganglion cell inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) as robust thresholds. “Low-contrast acuity was shown to detect the subtle deficits. Then, OCT came along to validate that. It turned out to be an even stronger structure/function coordination than we had thought,” Dr. Balcer says. Evaluating Long-Term Outcomes The next step was to demonstrate that early diagnosis of ON and initiation of MS treatment would slow disease progression. The researchers used a cohort from MSBase , an international online registry containing about 80,000 patient records. “The MSBase study is a longer study – 5 years – and people tended not to exit once they were in it,” Dr. Galetta notes. “We were able to look at disability, both visually and that initial treatment trials of the clinically isolated syndrome didn’t include.” In the MSBase cohort, early treatment after ON diagnosis was associated with better long-term visual and neurological outcomes compared to no treatment. The results support early treatment for patients presenting with ON as the first manifestation of MS. “Low-contrast acuity was shown to detect the subtle deficits. Then, OCT came along to validate that.” Assessing Diagnostic Accuracy In new research soon to be published, a team including Dr. Balcer, Dr. Galetta and Rachel Kenney, PhD, a former NYU Langone Health neuro-ophthalmology fellow, demonstrate that a composite score incorporating visual function tests such as LCLA, combined with SD-OCT measurements, improves the ability to identify patients with MS. The research team includes colleagues in the Advanced Ophthalmic Imaging Lab and from several partnering institutions. The researchers measured pRNFL and GCIPL thicknesses on SD-OCT devices and developed a composite score, combining OCT and other visual measures. They compared this score with individual measurements to determine the best model, and used support vector machine analysis to confirm that the model improved the diagnostic capability of OCT. The study provides class III evidence that SD-OCT can accurately distinguish people with MS from others and those with a history of unilateral ON. Combined with the MSBase evidence for improved outcomes, the team is hoping the findings are enough to get ON added to the MS criteria in the next evaluation. “Vision has always been last to the table. We’ve had to prove everything beyond a reasonable doubt. It’s been really gratifying to be able to present such strong evidence,” Dr. Galetta says. Community-Based Outreach: Changing the Model for Hearing Loss Screening A new program for low-income immigrant families tests bringing ENT care to patients. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In the U.S., 5 out of every 1,000 children experience hearing loss, which can affect quality of life, language acquisition, and learning. Even mild hearing loss can cause a child to miss as much as 50 percent of content covered in a classroom setting. Yet, hearing loss in children often goes unrecognized, particularly in low-income immigrant families who may come from countries where early hearing screening is not mandated. To test the theory that improving community access to hearing screenings can help to close the gaps in diagnosis and treatment, the NYU Langone Health have launched the Hearing Loss Awareness and Screening Program for Low-Income Immigrant Families. This clinical and research partnership is introducing screenings into nontraditional settings such as community centers and faith-based organizations. “The goal is to understand the incidence of unrecognized hearing loss and the causes in this age group, and to establish ongoing best-in-class programs and care to treat the hearing loss,” says J. Thomas Roland, Jr., MD , the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology and chair of the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. “The goal is to understand the incidence of unrecognized hearing loss and the causes in this age group, and to establish ongoing best-in-class programs and care to treat the hearing loss.” Defining Screening Best Practices Because hearing is so closely tied with learning and social adaptation, it is critical to identify hearing loss early, says Moses Mansu, DrPH , the program’s director. In the U.S., most babies are screened at birth, but this is not true in other countries, he adds. “If you’re able to intervene early, you have an opportunity to manage the problem. It is less likely to affect children socially.” The program will educate parents in low-income immigrant communities about hearing loss and how it may present in children, and will connect children with treatment to reduce adverse outcomes. If a family lacks insurance for their child, the program will help them to enroll in free state services. Leveraging Community Engagement The three-year pilot, supported by a generous gift from the Silverstein family, is projected to reach 1,100 community members with information and screen at least 120 children in its first year. The program will partner with two community-based organizations and four faith-based organizations in Brooklyn. In its second year, it will expand to Mineola, where NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island is located. “We have a church that provides worship services to Chinese and Latino immigrants, a mosque serving Arab and Asian Muslims, and a church serving predominantly West Indian immigrants,” says Dr. Mansu. “The Flatbush location has an affiliated academy, which gives us the opportunity to test school screenings.” During the program’s first year, each location is required to hold at least one educational workshop and two screening events, and to promote the program on-site. Marie T. Homsi, MD , a clinical assistant professor of pediatric otolaryngology, helped to lead the educational effort, developing presentations for public awareness and volunteer education, as well as multilingual materials for the program’s diverse audiences. NYU Langone physicians will train community volunteers in hearing loss screening techniques and ways to refer children for follow-up care. The team will track screenings and referrals and will measure awareness among parents. Advocating for Nationwide Change Dr. Roland, who has implemented a similar hearing loss screening program in Uganda, recently led a training for the program’s volunteers. He is a strong advocate for federal legislation that would make hearing screening more accessible for all families. “Every child should be able to maximize their potential,” he says. Health Equity, Community Engagement Moses Mansu, DrPH, oversees the daily operations of community engagement initiatives in the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity. He is the former director of faith-based initiatives at the New York City Department of Health. Testing a New Embolic Material for Chronic Subdural Hematoma While endovascular embolization using nonadhesive agents is an established method to treat many neurologic disorders, middle meningeal artery (MMA) embolization is a relatively new concept for treating chronic subdural hematomas (SDHs). ongoing clinical trial , NYU Langone Health neurosurgical researchers Eytan Raz, MD, PhD , are examining the safety and efficacy of MMA embolization using SQUID, a potentially best-in-class, low-viscosity liquid particle embolic agent for the management of chronic SDH. “We have seen some remarkable early results with this procedure in clinical practice.” “We have seen some remarkable early results with this procedure in clinical practice,” Dr. Nossek says. “MMA embolization is a very promising strategy that could potentially revolutionize our ability to care for patients with chronic SDH.” Collaboration between NYU Langone’s Departments of is making it possible to study the transformative therapy. “In our field, multidisciplinary collaboration is essential,” Dr. Nossek says. “We cannot function without each other.” Evaluating Treatment Outcomes Based on promising early results, the researchers are optimistic about the potential for MMA embolization to advance the standard of care and improve the quality of life of patients with this debilitating condition. If the trial results are favorable, it could prompt the FDA to approve the embolic system for this indication. Unlike patients who receive traditional burr hole drainage, those treated with SQUID could have a reduced likelihood of recurrence and complications. MMA embolization also offers immediate benefits, including a procedural duration of under an hour from start to finish. “SQUID may assist in resolving some of the current drawbacks of other embolic agents, such as low penetration and visibility.” “SQUID is a promising nonadhesive, liquid embolic agent that may assist in resolving some of the current drawbacks of other embolic agents, such as low penetration and poor visibility—especially during longer procedures,” Dr. Raz says. In the trial, patients will receive either MMA embolization with SQUID or standard management without embolization. The primary outcome is treatment failure, defined as residual or re-accumulation of the SDH, re-operation or surgical rescue, or any new, major disabling stroke after enrollment, as well as myocardial infarction or death from any neurologic cause, within six months of the intervention. “We expect this trial to also provide tremendous insight into the natural history of the disease, which has not been well characterized,” Dr. Nossek adds. Ensuring Long-Term Safety The team anticipates the study will yield new insights into the long-term safety of MMA embolization for chronic SDH, explains Dr. Raz, noting that while most prior studies have followed patients for a few weeks post-embolization, the current trial is following patients for six months. Albeit rare, potential risks of MMA embolization include access artery occlusion and spontaneous dural arteriovenous fistulas. In the study, the team aims to better characterize the risk of these complications as current data are limited. Ideal Candidates According to Dr. Raz, embolization of the MMA with SQUID may be particularly useful for patients with comorbidities that require permanent anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy, especially given that embolization is typically less invasive than open surgery. “Many patients presenting with chronic SDH are on anticoagulation therapy,” Dr. Raz says. “While surgical evacuation of a chronic SDH requires interruption of anticoagulation therapy, embolization of the MMA using SQUID can be carried out without stopping anticoagulation therapy—this may be a potential safety feature.” The researchers eagerly await the forthcoming results, which they expect by mid to late 2024. Erez Nossek, MD, is an associate professor of neurosurgery and director of the Cranial Bypass Program. His clinical and research interests include cranial bypass surgery, brain aneurysms, and stroke. Neurointerventional Radiology, Neuroradiology Eytan Raz, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of radiology. His clinical and research interests include embolization, stroke, MRI, and endovascular procedures. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Improve Lung Transplant Outcomes Timely pre-transplant testing for GERD holds revolutionary potential for improving outcomes. Robotic Whipple Offers Clear View of Complex Anatomy AI Set to Bring Expansive Benefits to Endoscopists National leader in computer-aided polyp detection discusses applications ahead for AI in endoscopy. Shedding Light on How Norovirus Triggers Crohn’s Disease A mechanism has been discovered that leaves gut cells vulnerable in genetically susceptible individuals. Minimizing the Miss Rate: How AI Is Reshaping Colonoscopy Computer-aided polyp detection systems boost detection of small and large adenomas. Improving Music Perception in Cochlear Implant Users David M. Landsberger, PhD Although cochlear implants (CIs) can be remarkably effective in enabling deaf people to understand spoken language, most users find it difficult to enjoy music through these devices. To improve CI performance in this area, it will be necessary to learn how different elements of sound quality influence patients’ experience of music—a topic that remains poorly understood. an auditory scientist at NYU Langone Health, is one of the few researchers systematically investigating this question. He and his team have developed a unique approach: studying patients with single-sided deafness (SSD). Here, he discusses his findings and their implications for the future of CI therapy. Recognizing the Importance of Music to CI Users Dr. Landsberger, what first got you interested in the issue of music perception among CI users? Dr. Landsberger: When I was first introduced to the CI as a PhD student, I learned that although CIs can provide an impressive ability to understand spoken language, the experience of music with a cochlear implant is awful. “I’ve always considered music one of the most important ways in which humans connect to their emotions and to one another.” I’ve always considered music one of the most important ways in which humans connect to their emotions and to one another, so I recognized a need to fix this problem. That requires a deeper understanding of the basic components in our enjoyment of music. Fortunately, the CI allows for a deep exploration of these components, which cannot be manipulated for a typical hearing listener. Emerging Patient Population Prompts a New Approach What led you to focus on CI users with SSD for this research? This population has emerged only since 2008, when researchers in Belgium reported that CIs could help control tinnitus in patients with SSD. It turned out that CIs also improved understanding of speech, a finding that led to growing numbers of people with SSD receiving implants. At a conference a few years ago, I met a singer with SSD who insisted on using her CI when she performed. She said it made the music sound better and gave her greater confidence on stage. Other CI users with SSD told me the same thing. That seemed paradoxical. On the one hand, people who’ve lost hearing in one ear often report a diminished experience of music. Paul Simon, who has developed SSD, recently told a reporter that when he hears himself perform, he thinks he sounds like “a Paul Simon cover band.” Yet elements like pitch, harmony, and timbre are greatly distorted with a CI. Users who are deaf in both ears describe music as sounding sour, thin, and out of tune. All of which made me wonder: Do CIs really improve music perception in people with SSD? And if so, why? How did you look for answers? In 2013, we launched a series of studies in collaboration with the Belgian team—whose audiologist, Dr. Katrien Vermeire, later became my wife—aimed at understanding this phenomenon. As subjects, we chose CI users with SSD who had musical training, figuring that they could articulate their perceptions and perform tasks involving tone recognition more precisely than untrained participants. We began by investigating pitch perception through the subjects’ implants and their healthy ears, and how it was influenced by frequency, place of stimulation amplitude modulation . We also examined pleasantness ratings for harmonic intervals with acoustic and electric hearing, trying to get a sense of what types of sounds were enjoyable or unpleasant for these patients. But the turning point came when we examined the experience of music for these patients in a more holistic way. Recent Findings Could Have Broader Implications Tell us about that breakthrough. In that study, published in 2020 in Ear and Hearing , we worked with Dr. Mario Svirsky and his group here at NYU Langone, as well as with our Belgian colleagues. We tested subjects’ responses to song segments under several conditions, using a scale of 0 to 200. “Patients with SSD can directly compare their musical experience between their implant and their healthy ear. That ear serves as an ‘auditory ruler.’” First, we played each segment through their healthy ear, and instructed them to rate their enjoyment at 100. Next, we played a version that had been heavily distorted by a noise-band vocoder—again using their healthy ear—and asked them to rate it at 0. We then played the undistorted segments through the subjects’ implants alone, and then through their implants and their healthy ears together. The results confirmed what the singer had reported. Music presented through the CI alone was very unpleasant, with an average rating of 17. But music presented through the CI and the healthy ear together was rated more enjoyable than acoustic processing alone, with an average score of 123. Since then, we’ve been working to identify factors that contribute to that difference. One technique we’ve developed is to have participants vocally imitate what they hear when we play a note or an interval, trying to capture not only pitch but things like timbre and sound quality. Does this work have implications for CI users who are deaf in both ears, as well? Absolutely. When you ask most patients who are deaf in both ears what music sounds like through the device, it’s hard to get a useful answer. You don’t know what their frame of reference is. Typically, they’ve experienced degraded auditory systems for a long time. Do they remember what music is supposed to sound like? Did they ever know in the first place? We hope to gain insights that will help us improve musical enjoyment for all CI users.” But patients with SSD can directly compare their musical experience between their implant and their healthy ear. That ear serves as an “auditory ruler,” allowing us to measure things in a more objective way. By studying this population, we hope to gain insights that will help us improve musical enjoyment for all CI users. Cochlear Implants, Deafness David M. Landsberger, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. His research centers on developing new sound processing strategies to provide improved sound quality, speech in noise understanding, and information transfer to cochlear implant users. Building the Nation’s First tDCS Telehealth Program Dr. Leigh Charvet, director of the trailblazing program, discusses the method’s benefits and expanding applications. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2024 AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts join other world leaders in Denver for the 2024 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Decoding SUDEP Risk with Comprehensive Registry Analyses By building the most comprehensive SUDEP registry to date, researchers help elucidate patient risk. Clarifying Connections Between Acoustic Tumor Size and Hearing Loss Serial MRI and audiometric data reveal trends in untreated vestibular schwannomas. The average baseline tumor volume was 0.24 cubic centimeters. Participants with larger initial tumors experienced more hearing loss over time. ADAPTED FROM: J. Neurosurg . 2021 Aug 20;1-8. For every cubic centimeter increase in tumor size, the researchers found an elevated risk of Class A hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.5) and serviceable hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.3). ADAPTED FROM: J. Neurosurg New research in the Journal of Neurosurgery shows how tumor volume and growth rate affect hearing in patients with vestibular schwannomas, bringing clarity to a contentious topic. While more than 90 percent of patients with these noncancerous growths present with some hearing loss, many choose not to intervene due to concerns over further impairment. However, even if an acoustic tumor does not grow larger, risks to Class A and serviceable hearing remain. “Hearing loss can occur with small or large tumors,” says , co-director of the Brain & Spine Tumor Center at Perlmutter Cancer Center. “By understanding the relationship between tumor growth and hearing loss, we are better able to choose appropriate management strategies.” A team at NYU Langone Health including Dr. Golfinos, , analyzed serial imaging and audiometric data from 128 patients with untreated, unilateral vestibular schwannomas. MRI allowed the researchers to calculate total tumor volumes, as opposed to relying on more traditional single-axis diameter measurements. “By understanding the relationship between tumor growth and hearing loss, we are better able to choose appropriate management strategies.” The average baseline tumor volume was 0.24 cubic centimeters. Participants with larger initial tumors experienced more hearing loss over time. The same was true for those with faster-growing tumors. For every cubic centimeter increase, the researchers found an elevated risk of Class A hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.5) and serviceable hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.3). Risk appeared to increase linearly without any evident threshold growth rate resulting in a significant jump. As a next step, the team plans to analyze how other factors, such as cochlear injury, nerve compression, tumor location, or neurodegeneration, might impact hearing loss in vestibular schwannomas. “The NYU Skull Base Surgery team has tremendous patient volumes.  This data as well as previous work related to patient treatment outcomes helps us inform recommendations that assist patients with acoustic neuroma management decisions,” Dr. Roland says. John G. Golfinos, MD, is Joseph Ransohoff Professor of Neurosurgery, a professor of otolaryngology–head and neck surgery, chair of the Department of Neurosurgery, and co-director of the Brain & Spine Tumor Center at Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research interests include the molecular biology of brain tumors and clinical progression in neurofibromatosis. Probing Long COVID’s Driving Factors & Relative Risks Study of patients in the Post-COVID Care Program seeks genetic and immunological clues and therapeutic strategies. Advancing Treatment of Bronchiectasis & Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Lung Infections Research seeks to find optimal interventions for these difficult-to-treat conditions. Resecting a Pediatric Tracheal Tumor with Robotic Surgery CHEST President on the Road Ahead for Pulmonary, Critical Care & Sleep Medicine Inclusion, education and communication, and improving healthcare access will be among the national group’s priorities. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AANS Annual Scientific Meeting NYU Langone Health experts joined colleagues from around the world at the 2024 American Association of Neurological Surgeons’ Annual Scientific Meeting in Chicago. This year’s theme is “What Matters,” which comes at a time “when all of us need to reconsider our appropriate roles and responsibilities in the broader fabric of modern civilization,” according to the organizers. Friday, May 3 MIS Tubular Decompression +/– Percutateous Fixation + SBRT Minimally Invasive Spinal Surgery: Comprehensive and Practical Review of Contemporary Approaches and Techniques (PC1103) Ilya Laufer, MD 1:58–2:07PM Saturday, May 4 Spine Discussion Surgical Videos from the Masters: How I Do It 2:26–2:31PM Utility of the Integral Dose for Predicting Radiosurgery Response in Patients with Trigeminal Neuralgia Pain Rapid Fire Abstract Ying Meng NYU Langone Co-Authors: Kenneth Bernstein, MS; Benjamin Cooper, MD ; Jason Gurewitz, MD; ; Elad Mashiach, MSc; Brandon A. Santhumayor, BA; Joshua S. Silverman, MD, PhD 4:24–4:26PM Lunsford and Leksell Radiosurgery Award: Vestibular Schwannoma International Study of Active Surveillance Versus Stereotactic Radiosurgery: The VISAS Study Extra-Axial Tumor Surgery: The Intersection of Surgical and Non-Surgical Treatment ; Elad Mashiach, MSc; Zane Schnurman, MD 4:41–4:45PM AANS/CNS Joint Section on Tumors Neuro-Oncology Trainee Award: Revisiting the Evans Index: Radiographic Predictors of Hydrocephalus Risk After Stereotactic Radiosurgery for Vestibular Schwannoma Brandon A. Santhumayor, BA ; Elad Mashiach, MSc; Ying Meng; Lauren Rotman, MD; 4:51–4:55PM What Matters: Neurosurgeons and Society Plenary IV 11:07–11:20AM CD97 (ADGRE5) – A Targetable Vulnerability in Glioblastoma Tumor Rapid Fire Abstract Hayley Donaldson, MS Shohei Koide, PhD ; Karenna J. Groff, BS, MEng; Takamitsu Hattori, PhD Christopher Y. Park, MD, PhD ; Niklas Ravn-Boess, PhD; Shuai Wang, MD, PhD 1:43–1:45PM Preliminary Results from the eShunt System Pilot Study in Idiopathic Normal-Pressure Hydrocephalus Cerebrovascular Rapid Fire Abstract NYU Langone Co-Author: 4:12–4:16PM Monday, May 6 Past, Present, and Future of AI in Neurosurgery The Past, Present, and Future of Clinical Data Science (NC4402) 7:11–7:36AM Raman Spectroscopy and AI for Brain Tumor Diagnosis Comprehensive Brain Tumor Care in the Era of Targeted Therapies and Novel Imaging Techniques (NC4403) 8:31–8:50AM Role of Organized Neurosurgery in Training Future Technical Leaders (Panel Discussion) 11:35AM–12:00PM Harmonizing Best Practices in Pediatric Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Global collaboration fosters learning for pediatric spinal cord injury rehabilitation and beyond. Mapping the Future of Rehabilitation Medicine The incoming president of the AAPM&R discusses his vision for the future of the specialty. A Legacy of Mild TBI & Impacted Cognitive Function for Military Personnel Researchers examine the potential lingering effects of blast-induced neurotrauma on active service members and veterans. A New Tool For Measuring Stroke Rehabilitation A sensor-based, machine learning platform aims to improve the rigor and effectiveness of rehabilitation therapy. Supporting Coordinated, Accessible Care for Cerebral Palsy When a patient with cerebral palsy (CP) comes through the doors at the , medical director Mara Karamitopoulos, MD , focuses her attention on one thing: offering every option—from hip reconstruction to targeted rehabilitation—to help every child hit individual care goals. “Two patients might appear clinically identical on X-rays and exams but have very different functional goals. Care absolutely has to be driven by each family,” she says. Given that there is no single, specific treatment target, effective management of patients with CP requires close coordination of specialties—an approach to care that the Center for Children was built to provide. The center is one of only a select few offering truly comprehensive, multidisciplinary care for CP, placing special emphasis on ensuring that social determinants don’t hurt access to high-quality care. “We treat children and families with very high social needs, including housing and food insecurity. We work to connect them with both the best possible care in the clinic and resources in the community.” “We treat children and families with very high social needs, including housing and food insecurity,” Dr. Karamitopoulos explains. “We work to connect them with both the best possible care in the clinic and resources in the community.” Targeting Treatment Toward Functional Outcomes From referral—often directly from NYU Langone’s —through transition to early adulthood, the program aligns orthopedic surgeons like Dr. Karamitopoulos with neurologists, pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, therapists from , and other specialists to meet the evolving needs of each patient. Though the nature of CP limits the possibility of measuring outcomes with specific indicators, the comprehensive care approach results in higher patient satisfaction because it enables children to participate more fully in their daily lives. Goals communicated by patients and families encompass everything from a child seeking greater agility to kick a soccer ball, to caregivers needing an easier time working with children’s tight muscles to get them dressed. “Unfortunately, we can’t take away the underlying condition,” explains Dr. Karamitopoulos. “Instead, we ask how we can make life easier for each impacted child and family, to help that child meet their potential.” Data-Driven Surgical Expertise Surgical decision-making is at the center of the care plan. Though hip dislocation is common in patients with CP, hip reconstruction was not commonly recommended until recently. Dr. Karamitopoulos and her team apply a treatment algorithm to recommend reconstruction only when a patient’s hip is more than 50 percent displaced from the socket. “The thinking used to be that it’s better to leave the hips dislocated until the patient has pain,” Dr. Karamitopoulos explains. “We have the resources here to safely intervene sooner and hopefully mitigate the tightness and pain driven by the dislocation for certain patients.” Highly specialized care is also available for patients with severe spasticity, who may benefit from neurosurgery or treatment with the muscle relaxant baclofen, administered through the spine at a specialized clinic within the center. Overcoming Social Barriers with Coordinated Care In addition to supporting patients’ functional outcomes, the coordinated care model makes accessing care as convenient as possible for both patients and caregivers. With appointments streamlined, patients can see most specialists and therapists at the center within a single day, minimizing the burden that accessing care can place on work status and family needs. The center also assigns each family a social worker, who not only supports their social and emotional needs but also helps them manage the realities of life with CP—from housing, transportation, and social activities to navigating accessibility within the New York City Public Schools. Part of Dr. Karamitopoulos’s research has focused on social determinants impacting access to high-quality CP care, particularly among non-English-speaking populations, finding that pairing families with supports can minimize care disparities. “With early diagnosis, parents better understand what to expect, and patients have a better chance of meeting their true potential.” Providing every patient who has CP with equal access to the best possible care, as early as possible, is a mission Dr. Karamitopoulos and her center colleagues are dedicated to achieving. To address known disparities in time to diagnosis due to social determinants, she is working with physical therapists at Rusk Rehabilitation to implement universal CP screening for all premature infants in the NICU. Using a screening tool with infants as young as 6 weeks of age, Dr. Karamitopoulos says the team can predict with 85 to 90 percent sensitivity which babies will ultimately develop CP. “The sooner we can diagnose patients, the more we can use therapeutic interventions to take advantage of early brain neuroplasticity,” says Dr. Karamitopoulos. “With early diagnosis, parents better understand what to expect, and patients have a better chance of meeting their true potential.” Mara Karamitopoulos, MD, is a clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery, chief of the Division of Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery, medical director of the Center for Children, and associate director of the Orthopedic Surgery Residency. Her research interests include pediatric orthopedic surgery, access to care, and social determinants of health. Reducing Revisits for Patients with Dementia Leaving the ED Despite nearly 1.4 million emergency department (ED) visits annually among patients with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias, many of their clinical and social needs remain unmet, resulting in return visits to the ED. In a new five-year, $54.9 million study funded by a U19 award from the NIH, faculty leaders at NYU Langone Health will examine how to improve emergency and post-discharge care for those living with dementia and their care partners. NYU Langone was chosen as one of the lead sites for the study—dubbed ED-LEAD, or Emergency Departments Leading the Transformation of Alzheimer’s and Dementia Care—and will be responsible for coordinating and implementing the research activities of 82 participating sites nationwide. “Even with advances in geriatric emergency care, the ED is a suboptimal setting for this population, who often require care for multiple chronic conditions,” says Dr. Chodosh will co-lead the project with three other principal investigators, , of NYU Langone, and national colleagues Corita R. Grudzen, MD, at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and Manish N. Shah, MD, at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Addressing Unmet Needs According to Dr. Chodosh, the symptoms of dementia place older adults at increased risk of requiring hospital and acute care services, often resulting in costly and under-reimbursed care. To reduce the overreliance on emergency care, researchers seek to test three different strategies to provide best care for persons living with dementia and their family care partners. Dr. Chodosh and his colleagues believe that many of these acute care visits could be avoided, maintaining that care could be provided in better-resourced settings. “These patients incur higher costs, are admitted to hospitals more often, return to EDs more frequently, and have higher mortality after an ED visit compared to those without dementia.” “We lack data on long-term clinical outcomes of patients with dementia who seek care in the ED,” he says. “These patients incur higher costs, are admitted to hospitals more often, return to EDs more frequently, and have higher mortality after an ED visit compared to those without dementia.” Examining Three Distinct Interventions For the study, interdisciplinary teams from all participating sites will evaluate different combinations of three interventions focused on care partners: Emergency Care Redesign (ECR), Nurse-Led Telephonic Care (NLTC), and Community Paramedic-Led Transitions Intervention (CPTI). With respect to outcomes, the effectiveness of these interventions on ED revisits, hospitalizations, and healthy days at home will be evaluated at specific time intervals—14 days, 30 days, and 6 months—post-discharge. Across the clinical sites, Dr. Chodosh will be implementing the ECR intervention, designed to optimize the workflow of emergency providers with digital alerts and structured collaborations with external partners. This intervention is specifically designed for those with dementia who live on their own in the community. “Our aim with this intervention is to redesign workflows from when patients first present to their discharge back into the community,” he explains. The NTLC intervention, directed by Dr. Brody, will provide psychosocial support and connect patients and their care partners to community support and services. The CPTI, led by Dr. Shah, will provide a coaching intervention delivered by community paramedics to empower patients and care partners to manage their healthcare with confidence. All three programs hope to reduce future ED visits and hospitalizations while improving transitional care, quality of care, and care satisfaction, Dr. Chodosh says. Laying the Groundwork for Change Given the size and scope of the project, the investigators believe that it provides a prime opportunity to establish best practices and optimize workflows for geriatric emergency and post-emergency care at a national level. “We hope that one or a combination of these interventions will reduce unnecessary ED visits and hospitalizations for this population.” Additionally, these interventions could be used to reduce costs for health systems. “We hope that one or a combination of these interventions will reduce unnecessary ED visits and hospitalizations for this population,” Dr. Chodosh says. “Health systems may then better allocate scarce resources to where they can be best used.” Reducing the Burden of Cancer Surgery Gary B. Deutsch, MD, MPH. Source: NYU Langone Health Gary B. Deutsch, MD, MPH , a respected surgeon and expert in treating hepatobiliary and gastrointestinal cancers, was recently named chief of the Division of Surgical Oncology . Specializing in complex robotic procedures, he will serve as director of the hospital’s Robotic Surgical Oncology Program. Alongside his clinical expertise, Dr. Deutsch brings a passion for education and research to his leadership role in the division, which is part of . He was the founding program director of a surgical oncology fellowship program at his previous institution, having also served as program director for a general surgery residency, and has spearheaded innovative studies using smartwatches for surgical self-assessment. In this discussion, Dr. Deutsch reflects on his career transition and outlines his leadership goals, emphasizing that his primary driving force is to reduce the burden of surgery on patients. Drawn to the Benefits of Robotics Dr. Deutsch, can you tell us more about your surgical expertise and how you came to specialize in minimally invasive procedures? Dr. Deutsch: I’m board-certified in complex general surgical oncology, but I’ve developed a particular interest and expertise in robotic and minimally invasive approaches, especially for complex hepatobiliary and pancreatic cancers, and gastrointestinal malignancies. Early in my career, I became focused on finding ways to reduce the toll that cancer surgery can take on patients. Rather than just aiming to remove the tumor, I started exploring—alongside others in the field—how we could do these procedures in a less invasive way, using robotic technology. I loved pushing the envelope, using robotics for surgeries that were traditionally done with a large open incision. The difference in patient outcomes and recovery times between open and minimally invasive approaches is truly remarkable. “I loved pushing the envelope, using robotics for surgeries that were traditionally done with a large open incision.” Ultimately, I advanced to performing the most intricate surgeries, becoming a specialist in complex robotic surgeries, like the Whipple procedure for pancreatic cancer. Returning Home What drew you to this new role at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island? I actually have a long history with this hospital. Growing up in East Meadow on Long Island, I volunteered here during my teenage years, back when it was Winthrop Hospital, before merging with NYU Langone. I’ve always held the hospital in high regard; it’s a special place with a long-standing history, an esteemed reputation within the local community, and a dedicated patient base spanning generations. Throughout my career, I kept an eye on the great things happening at NYU Langone, so when the opportunity became available to lead the Division of Surgical Oncology here, it seemed like the perfect fit—I jumped at it. With NYU Langone’s academic backing, research resources, and Comprehensive Cancer Center designation from the NCI—combined with its commitment to high-quality care and innovation—I saw an incredible opportunity to further elevate the level of cancer care on Long Island. It’s a chance to build on the strong foundation laid by my outstanding predecessors, Dr. Megan D. Winner Dr. John D. Allendorf , and pursue my passion for innovative, minimally invasive surgical approaches and reducing the burden of treatment for cancer patients. “One initiative I’m eager to expand is the Home Hospital Program. It has the potential to further reduce the burden of surgery.” One initiative I’m eager to expand is the Home Hospital Program . The program allows carefully selected patients to recover in the comfort of their own homes, with close monitoring and support from the hospital. To my knowledge, no other hospital in New York offers this. I believe select patients who have undergone minimally invasive cancer surgery would greatly benefit from this approach. It has the potential to significantly enhance the patient experience and further reduce the burden of surgery. Priorities as Chief What are your priorities as the new division chief? A big focus for me will be expansion of education and research. I’m passionate about training the next generation of surgical oncologists, and I’m eager to build on my experience directing surgical training programs at my previous institution—those experiences helped shape my view of what modern surgical education looks like. I see a lot of opportunities to attract top talent to the field of surgical oncology and support them through their training. On the research front, I plan to be very active by involving Long Islanders in the ongoing trials at NYU Langone and by opening new national trials at our site. I have had great success with clinical trials in the past. Although surgical oncologists usually find their place in the operating room, I believe there is significant value in having a surgical oncologist actively involved in the advancement of science. Filling the Self-Assessment Gap You’re also leading pioneering research using Apple Watches to objectively measure surgical performance. Can you tell us more about this? I realized early in my career that mastering safe robotic surgery requires extensive experience, mentorship, and objective feedback. At that time, there were no effective tools for assessing surgical performance. Typically, the success of a surgery was judged by the patient’s outcome. While this is important, I felt it was necessary to have a more nuanced evaluation method. To address this gap, I secured funding to conduct a novel study using Apple Watches to measure wrist movements during robotic surgery. By analyzing this data, we aimed to identify potential improvements and provide actionable feedback to surgeons. This pilot study has yielded promising preliminary data, which will be presented at the American College of Surgeons Clinical Congress in October. I am very excited about these findings and hope to continue similar research here. Surgeons need to have robust self-assessment tools, much like other professions, so we can continue to improve the surgical quality we provide. Although leaders at a national level, including the American College of Surgeons, are exploring this area, there is still no standardized, efficient, and affordable method to provide surgeons with concrete feedback on their performance. Bonding with Patients Is there anything else you’d like to share about your approach to patient care and the values you bring to your practice? One of the things I’m most proud of is the deep connections I’m able to form with my patients. Patients with cancer are often experiencing one of the most vulnerable points in their lives. They’re not only looking for someone who has the skill set to help them get better, but they’re also looking for someone they can trust and form a bond with. “I’ve been told by patients that I treat them like family—I will never forget receiving that feedback, because it’s exactly what I strive to do.” I’ve been told by patients that I treat them like family—I will never forget receiving that feedback, because it’s exactly what I strive to do. I believe that patients who feel that level of support will fare better in their tough battle with cancer. That human connection is something I’ll continue to prioritize as I take on this new leadership role. Gary B. Deutsch, MD, MPH, is a professor of surgery and chief of the surgical oncology division at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. He specializes in minimally invasive cancer surgery. Making Clinical Excellence Your North Star Jonathan M. Gerber, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Jonathan M. Gerber, MD , has recently joined NYU Langone Health’s as chief clinical officer, where he will oversee the cancer service line across the entire network of locations throughout Brooklyn, Long Island, Manhattan, and Queens. As a seasoned clinician, Dr. Gerber has nearly two decades of experience in treating leukemia and related hematologic conditions, as well as extensive experience in blood and marrow transplant and cell therapies. He is also an accomplished translational researcher, focusing on the detection and targeting of leukemia stem cells. Dr. Gerber brings a wealth of experience in cancer leadership to the role, having previously served as director of the UMass Cancer Center and in leadership roles at the Atrium Health Levine Cancer Institute Here, Dr. Gerber shares his journey into leadership—including a sudden pivot to the COVID-19 response—and his vision for enhancing cutting-edge, personalized cancer care at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Lessons in Leadership What motivated you to pursue a leadership position in healthcare? Dr. Gerber: I happened into leadership roles a bit by circumstance. When I was still relatively junior in my career, an opportunity came up to help build the Levine Cancer Institute from the ground up in Charlotte, North Carolina. They had a bold vision of building a cancer center without walls and bringing cancer care closer to home. It was a rare opportunity that, for some, might have been intimidating due to the uncertainty, but for me it was an exciting challenge. I realized as a young physician that I didn’t want to be in the position of complaining about things without trying to fix them. We did everything from establishing the positions and hiring faculty and staff to drafting protocols and pathways and even designing future construction and renovations. We launched a leukemia program and a blood and marrow transplant program covering inpatient and outpatient services—truly building from scratch. It was a unique and invaluable learning experience that I really enjoyed. How did your experience in Charlotte shape your approach to leadership? I was trained as a physician–scientist, spending most of my time in the lab while on faculty at Johns Hopkins. So when I took the role at Levine Cancer Institute, I tried to apply the same rigor and due diligence to administrative problems as I would to a scientific experiment or patient care. Rather than dismissing issues, I made an effort to understand the context and find the best solutions by thinking creatively, being resourceful, engaging key stakeholders, and building consensus. “I always say that the diseases that we take care of are stressful enough, we don’t need any manufactured stress.” Many people mistake leadership for simply having the authority to hire and fire or issue orders, but it’s really about solving problems and taking care of people. Hiring is fun, and it’s one of the most important things we do. It’s critical that we get that right and that we retain good people. Firing is an absolute last resort. Good leaders are often the hardest-working people in the organization. They’re receptive, responsive, and available to their team. They learn about the problems, and if a solution doesn’t work, they reassess and revise the plan. At the end of the day, it’s all about our patients and taking care of each other. I always say that the diseases that we take care of are stressful enough, we don’t need any manufactured stress. A Pivot During the Pandemic During the COVID-19 pandemic, you helped develop convalescent plasma therapies—an area related to but outside your usual expertise. Can you tell us more about this experience? It was really a perfect storm of circumstances that led me to get involved in the COVID-19 response. When the pandemic hit, I had just recently taken on oversight of the Transfusion Medicine Division at UMass, merging it into the Hematology and Oncology Division; and I was therefore asked to mobilize an effort around convalescent plasma treatments. This put me in a somewhat difficult position, because the Transfusion Medicine Division was small, with only two faculty, who were excellent but had little clinical research experience. And the extent of my experience with transfusion medicine was a one-month rotation as a fellow. I drew on my background in leukemia and infectious complications, as well as my experience in building programs and with clinical trials, to quickly pull together the necessary resources and research expertise. I had a phenomenal team supporting me, including an experienced blood bank team. And through my role in the cancer center, I was also able to rely on the cancer clinical trials team. This was an absolutely outstanding group of research nurses, coordinators, and regulatory personnel who worked tirelessly alongside me, often around the clock and 7 days a week, including holidays. I did not take a single day off for 14 months, which I could never have survived without their help. It was an incredibly stressful time, but I was able to translate my skills into a different arena and employ a collaborative approach to tackle a new challenge. It was certainly a detour that I never anticipated in my career. Priorities as a Chief Clinical Officer As the new chief clinical officer at Perlmutter Cancer Center, what are your top priorities? Clinical excellence is my North Star. The vision for the center is to be the absolute best in every area of cancer care. That means recruiting and retaining top talent; delivering cutting-edge, personalized, and compassionate care; implementing quality safeguards; performing innovative research to advance the standard of care; and driving continuous improvement. We also need to ensure consistency across our growing network of locations. We want patients to experience the same quality of care wherever they land in our system, and we want that care to be as close to home as possible. “We want patients to experience the same quality of care wherever they land in our system, and we want that care to be as close to home as possible.” Toward that goal, we’re working to standardize treatment pathways while still allowing for personalized approaches. We don’t want to make it so proscriptive that providers feel restricted in their practice, but we do want to provide some support and remove unnecessary variation. Leveraging our multiple locations throughout the region will help to eliminate disparities in care and barriers to access, including the availability of clinical trials. You also aim to position the cancer center as a leader in translational research. Can you elaborate on your plans? Fostering tight collaboration between our scientists and clinicians to advance translational research will be a key priority for me in this role. I want to create an environment where we are seamlessly moving discoveries from the bench to the bedside, and then using insights gleaned from patient care to inform new research directions. This bidirectional flow of knowledge is critical for driving innovation in cancer treatment, and it’s one of the things we need to do better at in medicine as a whole. Precision medicine is also a priority. We need to collect biospecimens and data across our network, feed that into our research programs to identify new biomarkers and therapeutic targets, and develop new therapies. Increasingly, we will need to incorporate artificial intelligence into these efforts. While this is easier said than done, it will be crucial for improving cancer outcomes going forward. Another part of this involves establishing collaborations across departments and divisions within NYU Langone and with outside partners to explore how therapies introduced in cancer can be applied to other diseases. For example, the same CAR T cell therapies used to treat B cell lymphomas and other cancers have shown early promise in treating debilitating autoimmune diseases such as lupus. These therapies require the infrastructure and expertise that we have in blood and marrow transplantation to deliver them safely and effectively. So we’ve partnered with other specialties to bring these treatments to patients with autoimmune diseases. NYU Langone is at the forefront of this pioneering approach, and I plan to remain closely involved with these and similar efforts to expand the applications of CAR T cells and related treatments to more diseases. Jonathan M. Gerber, MD, is the chief clinical officer at Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research and clinical interests include leukemia and related hematologic conditions, as well as blood and marrow transplant. Building an Automated Registry of Spine Surgery Clinical registries offer crucial benefits to the surgical sciences. Because there are fewer randomized controlled trials in surgery, registries are critical to supporting research, device monitoring, and trial development. Currently, they are costly to create and challenging to maintain, requiring the skilled labor of physicians or nurses to enter data manually into registries. In a study published in , NYU Langone Health researchers used neurosurgeons’ operative notes to inform an accurate and interpretable natural language processing (NLP) algorithm that could generate an automated registry of spine surgery. NLP combs through data to pinpoint keywords that capture the meaning of a body of text, and in doing so this method has the potential to reduce the time and cost that make scaling up manual registries challenging. This creates the potential to facilitate more clinical research opportunities and better monitor care. “Previously surgeons had to manually enter registry data, or rely upon programming methods set up by computer scientists. Now, surgeons can set up the computational model instead of manually doing the work themselves.” “Previously surgeons had to manually enter registry data, or rely upon programming methods set up by computer scientists,” says , senior author on the study. “Now, surgeons can set up the computational model instead of manually doing the work themselves.” Human in the Loop This model is considered a human-in-the-loop approach, where a computational or artificial intelligence (AI) model greatly benefits from human interaction. According to Dr. Oermann, surgeons actively participating in training the model were asked questions like “How do you talk about surgery?” and “How do you write about surgery?” They then used a pattern-matching method within NLP to design classifiers that could order or categorize this information on a surgeon-by-surgeon basis. Researchers began with the NYU Langone “data lake,” which combines unstructured data from the electronic health record (EHR), billing department, imaging systems, and other sources of information. They ran a structured language query to collect 31,502 notes—including spine, cranial, and peripheral cases—for analysis. This data was processed using regular expressions (regex) classifiers, 650 lines of code, written in collaboration with operating surgeons and trainees. In this study, the relative simplicity of the regex method provided transparency in interpreting results as compared with more sophisticated AI models. AI models are often described as black boxes. It can be difficult to understand how they arrive at their decisions, making them challenging to deploy in healthcare settings. The generated autoregistry of operative notes that were run through the regex classifiers included 14 labeled spine procedures. NLP classifiers had an average accuracy of 98.86 percent at identifying both spinal procedures and relevant vertebral levels. They also correctly identified the entire list of defined surgical procedures in 89 percent of patients. Researchers were able to identify patients who required additional operations within 30 days, monitoring outcomes and quality metrics. Because of the specificity used in surgeons’ language, this study cannot be generalized to other hospitals. However, the study demonstrates the method could be replicated in other settings to generate additional autoregistries. This would require neurosurgery domain expertise and practical NLP programming skills. With relatively simple computing requirements, and cost-effective use of surgeons’ time, this method improves upon existing manual methods. Future directions for research include collecting additional spine outcomes data and comparing the regex classifiers against other machine learning models. Neurosurgery, Spine Surgery Eric K. Oermann, MD, is an assistant professor of neurosurgery and radiology. He specializes in tumors of the brain and spine and is an expert in applying artificial intelligence to advance clinical care. Collaborative clinical care and careful evaluation help resolve the underdiagnosed and often debilitating neuropathic syndrome. Collaborative Evaluation Helps Diagnose and Relieve Pudendal Neuralgia A woman in her early 40s presented to NYU Langone Health for an evaluation of stress urinary incontinence and vaginal pain that had persisted since her second vaginal delivery four years prior. Although that delivery was uncomplicated, it required an episiotomy and the woman began experiencing constant irritation and burning in her vaginal opening and sometimes in her rectum. “Pudendal neuralgia falls through the cracks because patients are not knowledgeable about it and most healthcare providers have never heard of it.” Through a careful and thorough evaluation, urologist , and pain specialist Meera K. Kirpekar, MD , developed high suspicion of a neuropathic condition called pudendal neuralgia. “I think pudendal neuralgia falls through the cracks because patients are not knowledgeable about it and most healthcare providers have never heard of it,” Dr. Rosenblum says. The pudendal nerve originates at the base of the spine and descends through the gluteal muscles until it reaches the pelvic floor, where it splits into three major branches. Damage to the nerve can cause overactive bladder syndrome and mimic a host of other conditions. “If you block the pudendal nerve and there is at least 50 percent pain relief lasting the duration of the local anesthetic, you have diagnosed pudendal neuralgia.” One telling clue was a burning sensation in the patient’s vaginal introitus that intensified when she sat for long periods or sat on a hard surface. Pain that worsens with sitting but lessens with standing is consistent with compression of the pudendal nerve along its pathway across the ischial tuberosity. Dr. Kirpekar performed a pudendal nerve block, which can be both therapeutic and diagnostic. “If you block the pudendal nerve and there is at least 50 percent pain relief lasting the duration of the local anesthetic, you have diagnosed pudendal neuralgia,” she says. After the 10-minute, X-ray-guided injection, the patient achieved full pain relief. “She was thrilled,” Dr. Kirpekar says. By four months, some slight pain had returned, but it was not interfering with the woman’s daily activities, and the physicians are continuing to monitor her progress. Pain Management, Anesthesiology Meera K. Kirpekar, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of anesthesiology, perioperative care, and pain medicine. She specializes in caring for patients with pelvic, neck, low-back, peripheral joint, or nerve pain. Urology, Female Pelvic Medicine, and Reconstructive Surgery Nirit Rosenblum, MD, is a clinical professor of urology and obstetrics and gynecology, and co-director of the Female Pelvic Medicine Fellowship Program. She specializes in clinical care for women with pelvic floor disorders and urinary incontinence. New Partnership Aims to Improve Perinatal Outcomes in Ghana Dr. Sasha Hernandez and Ghanaian healthcare providers in the maternal–fetal medicine unit. Source: NYU Langone Health Rates of maternal and infant mortality in Ghana and other parts of West Africa rank among the highest in the world. Over the past two decades, Ghana has made significant progress in reducing these rates, yet the numbers remain high. Maternal deaths stand at approximately 319 per 100,000 live births , around twice the global average . Neonatal mortality in Ghana is around 23 per 1,000 live births , around seven times higher than in the United States and Europe. Policymakers and healthcare providers strive to continue lowering these rates, especially in northern Ghana, where improvements in maternal and infant health outcomes have lagged compared to other parts of the country. In support of these efforts, specialists from NYU Langone Health, working through the global health initiative AMPATH , have established a maternal-fetal medicine (MFM) unit at the sole tertiary referral hospital in northern Ghana. The unit is dedicated to monitoring high-risk pregnancies, an effort known to improve perinatal outcomes. “Every day, we scan an average of 25 women at the MFM unit, many of whom have high-risk pregnancies.” Sasha Hernandez, MD “Every day, we scan an average of 25 women at the MFM unit, many of whom have high-risk pregnancies,” says , a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at NYU Langone. “We also get referrals from nearby or district hospitals for more complicated cases.” Dr. Hernandez is currently serving as the lead obstetrician–gynecologist for AMPATH’s initiative in Ghana, and has made Tamale, Ghana, her full-time home since 2022. Replicating a Proven Model AMPATH, short for Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare, is a consortium that builds partnerships between universities and academic medical centers around the world. Its mission is to strengthen health systems and tackle health disparities in low- and middle-income countries. About 30 years ago, the first AMPATH partnership launched in western Kenya , with the success of the model driving the consortium’s expansion into Mexico Nepal , along with the ongoing partnership in Ghana Dr. Sasha Hernandez with a patient and her newborn who received care at the MFM unit. The patient had experienced multiple neonatal losses in the past and was being monitored for growth restriction. Following intensive fetal monitoring and a closely supervised preterm delivery, she left the MFM unit with a healthy baby “At the core of the AMPATH model is the belief that long-term, sustainable global health partnerships are the key to improving health across the globe,” says Rajesh Vedanthan, MD, MPH Section for Global Health , and an associate professor in the Dr. Vedanthan has been involved with AMPATH Kenya for nearly two decades. “AMPATH Kenya was one of the first programs in Africa to start a comprehensive HIV clinical care program,” he says. Care infrastructure was then extended to address cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, child and adolescent health, and more. Thousands of local medical students and trainees received specialized training in the process. “These trainees will be able to impact the populations that they subsequently work with during their careers,” says Dr. Vedanthan. “I think that’s a very special thing that’s embedded within this academic relationship.” “These trainees will be able to impact the populations that they subsequently work with during their careers. I think that’s a very special thing that’s embedded within this academic relationship.” When AMPATH leadership set out to replicate the model in other countries, Dr. Vedanthan was asked to lead the organization and launch of AMPATH Ghana. “I jumped at the opportunity,” he says. Managing High-Risk Pregnancies AMPATH Ghana partnership connects NYU Langone with Ghana’s University for Development Studies and Tamale Teaching Hospital. Strengthening reproductive healthcare and launching the MFM unit were among the initial priorities. Activities began in fall 2022, involving comprehensive training for local healthcare providers in ultrasound techniques and specialized care, alongside the development of tailored protocols for managing high-risk pregnancies. By fall 2023, these efforts led to the official inauguration of the MFM unit. This phased approach not only streamlined the implementation process but also facilitated the development of trust and effective problem-solving, says Dr. Hernandez, fostering widespread support for the MFM unit from both healthcare professionals and patients in northern Ghana. Another boon of the MFM unit: it serves as a training ground for local residents seeking to acquire proficiency in obstetric and gynecological ultrasound. Since its inception, the unit has trained 20 physicians from the region, six of whom attained advanced ultrasound training, as well as five midwives. A medical officer and an OB/GYN resident perform an ultrasound scan in the MFM unit. Source: NYU Langone Health. With the MFM unit now operational, the focus has expanded to assessing how ultrasound screenings are impacting outcomes for both mothers and babies related to high-risk pregnancies, particularly those with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. “The number one cause of maternal morbidity and mortality in Ghana is hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, which includes pre-eclampsia and eclampsia,” says Dr. Hernandez. “Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy also increase the risk of stillbirth, fetal growth restriction, and neonatal death.” Dr. Hernandez is drawing insights from the outcomes tracking to validate the effectiveness of the MFM unit and pinpoint areas for improvement. Recently, the MFM unit secured a grant from the Consortium of Universities for Global Health to evaluate clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction associated with the new innovative care model over a two-year period. Foundation of Trust With a focus on building relationships grounded in mutual trust, respect, and benefit, NYU Langone has stationed additional faculty members, alongside Dr. Hernandez, at Tamale Teaching Hospital. These experts are leading projects in medicine, pediatrics, mental health, and population health. “These NYU Langone specialists are identifying priorities based on their day-to-day experiences and their discussions with their Ghanaian colleagues, and then translating these priorities into programs and initiatives,” says Dr. Vedanthan. The established foundation of trust and relationship-building now facilitates short-term visits by other NYU Langone faculty and trainees as well. “It’s a partnership, not a project,” Dr. Hernandez says. “Building trust takes time and can be hard. But once you have that trust, what you can create together is really meaningful and impactful—and beautiful.” Obstetrics and Gynecology, Global Health Sasha Hernandez, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology and population health. She serves as the Obstetrics and Gynecology Lead for AMPATH Ghana. Her research interests include global health, capacity building, increasing access to equitable reproductive health, and implementation research. Cardiology, Global Health Rajesh Vedanthan, MD, MPH, is an associate professor of medicine and population health. His research interests include global health, cardiovascular disease, climate change and health, transdisciplinary implementation research, and capacity building. Teaching Endocrinology to Future Generations Endocrine educator Dr. Melissa Sum is rethinking the toolkit for specialty training. Untangling Mechanisms of Diabetes & Cardiovascular Disease Risk Ongoing trials probe the relationship between cholesterol-lowering and vascular disease in diabetes. Adolescent Obesity: Weight Loss and Bariatric Surgery An expert discusses bariatric surgery, a well-tolerated and effective treatment option for adolescent obesity. Low-Lipid Disorders: Rare, Yet Revealing, Metabolic Conditions An expert discusses hypobetalipoproteinemia, rare conditions that can inform treatments for more prevalent lipid disorders. Biologic Adjuvants Promote Healing of Ankle Cartilage Lesions Osteochondral lesions of the talus often result in early-onset osteoarthritis in the ankle joint if left untreated. Due to the avascular nature of articular cartilage, which limits its healing capacity, these ankle injuries are typically managed through surgical intervention. However, surgical treatments alone often lead to the formation of fibrocartilage, which is less tribologically and mechanically robust compared to the native hyaline cartilage of the joint. Consequently, biologic adjuvants are increasingly being explored for their potential to enhance cartilage healing and promote a hyaline-like quality. In 2017, at the inaugural International Consensus Meeting on Cartilage Repair of the Ankle, it was agreed that certain biologic adjuvants could be considered as part of a conservative management strategy for treating these ankle lesions. “Medicine is constantly evolving and improving. We still have to do quality basic science and clinical studies to show that these biologics are effective,” says NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon John G. Kennedy, MD . “Once efficacy is confirmed, biologics will help in sports injuries and in arthroscopy. We’re still going to operate. It’s just that now we’ll have new tools to promote regeneration and repair.” “Once efficacy is confirmed, biologics will help in sports injuries and in arthroscopy. We’ll have new tools to promote regeneration and repair.” To help surgeons sort through the expanding roster of adjuvants for ankle cartilage injuries, Dr. Kennedy and a collaborator highlighted some of the most promising options Journal of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons NYU Langone’s Foot and Ankle Center has long used platelet-rich plasma (PRP), an autologous product that is not only a potent anti-inflammatory but also a downregulator of metalloproteinases. Through that activity, PRP can help control joint homeostasis and stop cartilage destruction. Dr. Kennedy’s team has shown that a single in-office PRP injection is as effective as serial injections for giving patients with small chondral defects some symptomatic relief. He cautions, however, that the adjuvant doesn’t contain stem cells, contrary to some claims, and is more chondroprotective than chondrogenic. “It doesn’t produce a new joint or new cartilage,” he says, “but in small areas you can certainly affect your fibrocartilage infill, which may be helpful in the short term or medium term.” Concentrated Bone Marrow Aspirate Concentrated bone marrow aspirate (CBMA), another widely used biologic, is typically extracted from a patient’s pelvic bone in an operating room, centrifuged, and then injected into the ankle joint. Unlike PRP, Dr. Kennedy says, CBMA contains a small quantity of stem cells. In the context of the joint, researchers believe that injected stem cells can be engulfed by macrophages or monocytes, which then become activated and contribute to a biological milieu known as the secretome. In the right environment, the secretome can have chondrogenic, chondroprotective, immune modulatory, and antibacterial effects. “We’ve been pushing the envelope to better characterize what’s truly in the secretome and whether we can predict the clinical effect.” “There are multiple downstream effects of a secretome within a joint, which is a much greater effect than we previously thought about these stem cells,” Dr. Kennedy says. “That’s a very exciting area of work here at NYU Langone: we’ve been pushing the envelope to better characterize what’s truly in the secretome and whether we can predict the clinical effect from patient to patient based on the spectrum of what they have in their bone marrow.” Micronized Adipose Tissue Based on research suggesting that fat cells can be chondrogenic, NYU Langone’s orthopedic surgeons have also been assessing micronized adipose tissue as a potential solution for post-traumatic osteoarthritis in the ankle joint. In the first study of its kind in the United States, Dr. Kennedy and colleagues showed that injected fat cells are safe and potentially beneficial in patients with post-traumatic osteoarthritis of the ankle. The micronized adipose tissue, he suspects, contains additional factors that may add to the effect. The team is investigating different formulations to increase the strategy’s effectiveness, and has seen promising results in patients with knee osteoarthritis as well. “We’re not growing new joints. We’re simply protecting that joint, removing the cause of the symptoms, and prolonging the life of the joint for as long as we can,” Dr. Kennedy says. Hyaluronic Acid and Other Injectables Another biologic, hyaluronic acid, acts like a chondroprotective adjunct with some added anti-inflammatory and chondrogenic properties when injected into the knee joint. “We use it as an adjunct to many cases involving an osteochondral lesion or long-term post-traumatic osteoarthritis, and the results of that are very encouraging,” Dr. Kennedy says. In addition, the medical center’s orthopedic researchers are collaborating on investigations of other injectable agents, like a lubricin mimetic. “Lubricin is the true WD-40 of the joint,” Dr. Kennedy says. “The whole aspect of regeneration coupled with the preservation of existing cartilage is massively exciting for the future.” Ongoing clinical trials are assessing the effectiveness of a recombinant protein that mimics lubricin’s properties. “I think that’s going to be the next great breakthrough in terms of prolonging the life of many of these arthritic joints,” he says. As an acknowledged leader in the field, NYU Langone will host the 2025 International Consensus Meeting on Cartilage Repair of the Ankle to review the latest progress and clinical results from around the world. “I think we’re really at the tip of the spear in many of these chondrogenic and chondroprotective biologics,” Dr. Kennedy says. “The whole aspect of regeneration coupled with the preservation of existing cartilage, to me, is massively exciting for the future.” John G. Kennedy, MD, FRCS, is a professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and chief of the Division of Foot and Ankle Surgery. As director of the Foot and Ankle Center at NYU Langone Health, he specializes in sports injuries including cartilage injuries, Achilles tendon injuries, ankle instability, and ligament reconstruction. Latest in Orthopedics After a successful osseointegration and recovery, the patient is able to walk unassisted with the new titanium connector attached to his prosthetic leg. Osseointegration Enhances Post-Amputation Connection with Prosthesis In August 2022, a 46-year-old truck driver presented to NYU Langone Health’s multidisciplinary after his left leg had been crushed between a truck and loading dock and he had undergone a left transfemoral amputation. The man, active in sports prior to his injury, suffered from debilitating nerve pain and phantom limb syndrome and struggled with the fit and use of his traditional prosthetic. Orthopedic surgeons and center co-directors Omri Ayalon, MD Jacques Hacquebord, MD , performed a new two-stage osseointegration surgical procedure to implant a permanent titanium prosthetic connector in the man’s left femur to enhance the fit between his thigh and prosthetic leg. “This unique and comprehensive solution is a paradigm shift in the treatments we are able to offer individuals with limb loss.” Compared to traditional socket prostheses, osseoanchored prostheses allow for increased range of motion, limb strength, proprioception, and osseoperception. In addition, the permanent implant increases comfort and eliminates skin irritations, ulcers, and perspiration; allows for weight gain and loss; and simplifies prosthetic attachments. “Osseointegration is basically fixing the prosthesis itself to the patient’s skeleton,” says Dr. Ayalon. “There’s no pressure on the skin or the soft tissue at all, so that gets rid of all of the soft tissue concerns of a traditional socket prosthesis.” In the first surgery, he and Dr. Hacquebord performed targeted muscle reinnervation and implanted the titanium osseoanchored prosthetic system. During a follow-up surgery in November 2022, the surgeons attached an abutment to the implant. The complex soft tissue surgery closed the gap between bone and metal, allowing the thigh to heal down to the distal femur and titanium connectors. By January 2023, the patient reported significant improvement in his pain, phantom limb symptoms, mood, and mobility, and he was successfully fitted with a full prosthetic in May 2023. The patient’s strength continued to increase with time and physical therapy until he was able to walk unassisted. “The patient is ecstatic. He’s back to living life and participating in activities that he couldn’t do before.” “He’s ecstatic,” Dr. Hacquebord says. “He’s driving, he’s walking, he was just outside shoveling snow. He’s back to living life and participating in activities that he couldn’t do before.” Based on the success, Dr. Ayalon adds, “This unique and comprehensive solution is a paradigm shift in the treatments we are able to offer individuals with limb loss.” Orthopedic Surgery, Hand and Wrist Surgery Omri B. Ayalon, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, co-director of the Center for Amputation Reconstruction, and associate director of the Hand Surgery Fellowship Program. He specializes in orthopedic surgery and hand and wrist surgery. Jacques H. Hacquebord, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery and co-director of the Center for Amputation Reconstruction. He specializes in treating patients with severe hand injuries through reconstructive surgery and microsurgery. Building ‘Digital Phenotypes’ of Stress-Related Disorders Surveys suggest that up to 70 percent of physicians 82 percent of nurses who work in the nation’s emergency departments (EDs) report symptoms of burnout—a condition associated with increased risk for medical errors, cardiovascular disease, and cognitive decline. Yet little is known about the risk factors for burnout or how it develops over time. Researchers at NYU Langone Health are working to increase that understanding, using “digital phenotyping” to identify markers predictive of burnout symptoms. In an NIH-funded prospective longitudinal study led by , the team will follow a cohort of 350 ED clinicians, using advanced computational methods to extract such markers from video and audio data. “A problem for the study of burnout is that screening relies on subjective self-reports and the clinician’s interpretive skills. My research focuses on finding objective diagnostic and prognostic modalities.” “A problem for the study of burnout, as with many other neuropsychiatric disorders, is that screening relies on subjective self-reports and the clinician’s interpretive skills,” Dr. Schultebraucks explains. “My research focuses on finding objective diagnostic and prognostic modalities to identify stress-related mental health issues and enable timely interventions.” A Digital Phenotype for Burnout In the three-year trial, currently in its enrollment phase, investigators will conduct semistructured interviews about work experience, using a subset of artificial intelligence known as machine learning to analyze participants’ voice patterns, speech content, head movement, pupil dilation, gaze, facial expressions, and other digital biomarkers extracted from video and audio data. This digital phenotyping will then be used to predict evidence of chronic stress determined by neurocognitive tests, psychometric assessments, and physiological biomarkers—such as elevated blood pressure, inflammatory proteins in blood samples, and high cortisol concentrations in hair samples. As digital biomarkers emerge, they will be tested for accuracy in distinguishing between risk for clinically relevant versus nonrelevant burnout symptoms. The team will also assess the association of those biomarkers with the long-term job-related stress load of individual clinicians, such as levels of ED crowding and patient acuity, adequacy of staffing, and regularity of shift schedules. “The mental and physical wellbeing of ED clinicians is crucial not only to those who work day in and day out to save the lives of others, but is also essential to a well-functioning emergency care system.” “By identifying objective, accurate, and reliable digital measures for burnout, we hope to promote low-threshold prevention strategies,” Dr. Schultebraucks says. “The mental and physical wellbeing of ED clinicians is crucial not only to those who work day in and day out to save the lives of others, but is also essential to a well-functioning emergency care system.” Digital Tools for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and Suicidality In addition to burnout, Dr. Schultebraucks and her research group are working to develop easily deployable digital tools for risk stratification, diagnosis, and treatment selection in other stress-related pathologies. Their approach embraces not just digital phenotyping but also clinical predictive analytics and computational medicine. Toward this effort, the team is currently conducting two other large studies. The first, funded by the NIH , focuses on patients admitted to an ED after a potentially traumatic event. This study’s overall objective is to develop and test a risk-prediction model of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) based on electronic medical records (EMRs) and digital biomarkers. Previous work by the team, showed that routinely collected data from EMRs, together with a brief psychometric screening, predicted nonremitting PTSD symptoms in patients after trauma. The researchers propose to use such digital biomarkers to substitute for psychometric self-reports in developing a prognostic model of short-term and chronic PTSD risk. The second study is part of a multicenter investigation, funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation , with multiple principal investigators. Its aim is to predict suicidal ideation and behavior in psychiatric patients who were admitted to an inpatient unit after exhibiting such symptoms and who are about to be discharged. Dr. Schultebraucks and an interdisciplinary team that includes psychiatrists, psychologists, and linguists have developed an app that draws on daily psychometric assessments, video diaries, and other data to forecast the risk of relapse. “We want to learn not only whether digital biomarkers can predict suicidal ideation,” Dr. Schultebraucks explains, “but also how sensitive they are in monitoring changes in symptomology over time.” Answers to such questions are crucial, she notes, before these kinds of tools can be deployed in real-world settings. “Our goal is to identify at-risk individuals who could benefit from earlier intervention, and to develop scalable approaches to treatment that can improve outcomes and reduce health disparities in vulnerable populations.” Eventually, Dr. Schultebraucks hopes digital tools can help guide preventive and therapeutic strategies for populations ranging from firefighters to combat troops “Our overall goal,” she says, “is to identify at-risk individuals who could benefit from earlier intervention and to develop scalable approaches to treatment that can improve outcomes and reduce health disparities in vulnerable populations.” Katharina Schultebraucks, PhD, is an associate professor of psychiatry and population health and co-director of the Computational Psychiatry Program. Her research centers on precision psychiatry, with a focus on applying advanced computational methods to improve individualized risk stratification and individualized treatment allocation. How One Institution’s Heritage Embodies the History of Orthopedics Dr. Kenneth A. Egol speaking at the screening of On the Shoulders of Giants at the Tribeca Film Festival. Source: NYU Langone Health. For clinicians seeking to advance their specialty, a grasp of its history is essential. One way to deepen that understanding is by examining the development of a single institution—an approach taken by the documentary On the Shoulders of Giants , which traces the heritage of NYU Langone Health’s Department of Orthopedics to the discipline’s most illustrious ancestors. The hour-long film grew out of a project by orthopedic surgeon Kenneth A. Egol, MD , a self-described history buff who led residents and students in cataloging biographies of the department’s clinical pioneers. “At NYU Langone, we often say we’re standing on the shoulders of giants,” says Dr. Egol, who serves as vice chair for academic affairs for orthopedic surgery and chief of orthopedic trauma. “But our research convinced us that this was a story others needed to know.” “Our research convinced us that this was a story others needed to know.” To tell that story, he and , chair of orthopedic surgery, turned to award-winning documentarian Peter Sanders , who had been under their care for several years—most recently for a midfoot fracture. “I look back on that as ‘the break that led to a bigger break,’” Sanders says. “I might never have become involved with this project if I wasn’t seeing these doctors as a patient.” The film was an official selection of the 2024 Tribeca X Award competition, a celebration of the year’s best brand-supported storytelling. It is now available to stream on multiple platforms. The Formative Years The saga begins at Bellevue Hospital in 1853, when Lewis Albert Sayre, MD , started his practice. Then, in 1861, he became the first professor of orthopedic surgery in the United States. Among Dr. Sayre’s outstanding students were brothers Henry and Herman Frauenthal , who in 1905 founded the Jewish Hospital for Deformities and Joint Diseases. By 1921, that entity had grown from a single brownstone in upper Manhattan to a multibuilding complex known as the Hospital for Joint Diseases (HJD) —one of the foremost patient care centers in the United States. From the beginning, the hospital was home to many of the field’s seminal figures: Emanuel Kaplan, MD , gained renown as a founder of the discipline of hand surgery. Henry L. Jaffe, MD , joined the faculty in 1924 and has been credited as the father of orthopedic pathology for his systematic classification of bone and cartilage tumors. Leo Mayer, MD , one of the original chiefs of service, was a leader in polio care in the 1920s and 30s. Harry Finkelstein, MD , developer of the Finkelstein test, was another original chief of service. Surgeon Michael Burman, MD , became a pioneer of diagnostic arthroscopy in the 1930s. In 1935, Marian Frauenthal Sloane, MD , Herman Frauenthal’s daughter, became the first female orthopedic surgeon in the United States to publish an article in a peer-reviewed journal. Henry Milch, MD , devised the Milch classification system for lateral condyle fractures in the 1950s Howard Rosen, MD , brought the principles of internal fixation, originally developed in Switzerland, to the United States. Paul Lapidus, MD , established America’s first orthopedic foot service and invented the Lapidus procedure for treating hallux valgus—it’s still in use today. Victor H. Frankel, MD , established the nation’s first biomechanics laboratory at HJD, and subsequently introduced the Ilizarov limb-lengthening technique to the United States. Melvin H. Jahss, MD , a student of Dr. Lapidus, published the classic textbook on disorders of the foot and ankles and went on to found the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society Jacques Serge Parisien, MD , forged new paths in arthroscopic surgery and sports medicine. All these innovators appear in On the Shoulders of Giants, whether in archival photographs, vintage video footage, or interviews conducted for the film. Continuing the Legacy The oldest connection between NYU Langone and HJD runs through Bellevue Hospital, where faculty members have taught and practiced since the 19th century. The link became even closer in the 1990s, when HJD affiliated with NYU Langone. In 2006, the two institutions completed a full asset merger, with the HJD becoming the NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases—now named “There are thousands and thousands of patients who are benefiting from NYU Langone orthopedics, either directly or indirectly. For us, that is the most meaningful aspect of what we do.” As the documentary shows, the legacy of Lewis Albert Sayre lives on in NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Department of Orthopedic Surgery , which operates NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital and provides services at numerous sites throughout the metropolitan area. The film introduces over three dozen current faculty members, orthopedic trainees, and administrators. Their demographics are more diverse than those of earlier generations, but their mission remains much the same. In one scene, Dr. Zuckerman illustrates that continuity through a diagram of a tree, whose roots represent Sayre and the Frauenthals, and whose trunk stands for as it exists today. “Emanating from that into the branches,” he explains, “is the clinical care we provide and the scientific discovery and innovation that we perform, and the education of residents and fellows.” The department’s residency program, Dr. Zuckerman adds, is the largest of its kind in the country. This, along with the robust fellowship programs, offers a comprehensive and immersive educational experience provided by NYU Langone orthopedics. As a result, “there are hundreds of NYU Langone orthopedic graduates providing patient care across the country,” says Dr. Zuckerman. “There are thousands and thousands of patients who are benefiting from NYU Langone orthopedics either directly or indirectly. For us, that is the most meaningful aspect of what we do.” Kenneth A. Egol, MD, is the Joseph E. Milgram Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, vice chair of academic affairs in orthopedic surgery, and chief of the Division of Trauma and Fracture Surgery. His research and clinical interests center on patient outcomes following musculoskeletal trauma. Hip & Knee Reconstruction, Shoulder & Elbow Surgery Joseph D. Zuckerman, MD, is the Walter A. L. Thompson Professor of Orthopedic Surgery and chair of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. His research interests include outcomes of shoulder surgery, arthritis and shoulder replacement, hip and knee arthroplasty, geriatric hip fractures, and improving methods of orthopedics residency education. Sleep Disorders Offer a Potential Target for Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention The relationship between Alzheimer’s disease risk and age-related sleep changes—and how barriers to sleep health possibly drive Alzheimer’s disease–related disparities—is the focus of ongoing research led by Omonigho M. Bubu, MD, PhD, MPH , an associate professor of psychiatry at NYU Langone Health and member of the Brain Aging and Sleep Center Dr. Bubu’s investigations offer a window into potential opportunities to target sleep disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) before the onset of Alzheimer’s disease, potentially narrowing the disproportionate risk of Alzheimer’s disease in minority populations. “If we can eliminate sleep problems before major cognitive decline, we may be able to significantly reduce the Alzheimer’s disease risk burden—particularly among Black patients.” “We now know that around 15 percent of Alzheimer’s disease cases can be attributed to specific sleep problems,” says Dr. Bubu. “Clinically, that tells us that if we can eliminate sleep problems before major cognitive decline, we may be able to significantly reduce the Alzheimer’s disease risk burden—particularly among Black patients, who are twice as likely to experience sleep problems.” Sleep Apnea as a Risk Factor retrospective analysis led by Dr. Bubu found a dose–response relationship in incident Alzheimer’s disease risk as OSA increased, driven specifically by underlying factors involved in OSA: hypoxia, sleep fragmentation, and sleep duration. He notes, though, that the precise causal relationship between OSA and Alzheimer’s disease onset remains under investigation. While the study indicated that patients with OSA were significantly more likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease compared to those without OSA, the risk was notably more pronounced in Black and Hispanic patients. Specifically, White patients with OSA were 1.7 times more likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease compared to their counterparts without OSA. In contrast, Black individuals with OSA were 2.2 times more likely and Hispanic patients with OSA were 1.8 times more likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease compared to their counterparts without OSA. Early intervention could potentially head off the development of the progressive disease. Suggesting opportunities for such intervention, from Dr. Bubu and colleagues has demonstrated a greater presence of Alzheimer’s disease biomarkers in cognitively healthy older patients with OSA, including amyloid burden and tau protein aggregation . Concurrent vascular risk factors, including hypertension, were found to further promote amyloid burden and global cognitive decline. Research into Disparities and Interventions Now, with over $8.5 million in funding from the National Institute on Aging, Dr. Bubu is applying a health disparities research framework to further investigate the effects of race on the relationship between OSA and Alzheimer’s disease pathology. The five-year study will involve 300 race-, age-, and sex-matched participants—half with newly diagnosed OSA. Data on social determinants of health from the study could support prospective investigations of novel prevention strategies for Alzheimer’s disease that target stress management, inflammation, hypertension, and sleep quality. “By prioritizing sleep in patient education and promoting adherence to effective treatments for sleep problems, physicians may be able to help their patients effectively slow the onset and progression of cognitive decline.” Dr. Bubu’s ongoing research has also found that plasma strongly mirrors brain scans in revealing the presence of certain Alzheimer’s disease biomarkers. These biomarkers, including tau, point to a future role for blood-based screening, which could provide a simple tool to assess Alzheimer’s disease risk. In the meantime, his findings to date suggest an immediate clinical benefit to prioritizing sleep in the evaluation and management of patients—particularly Black patients. “The effects of social determinants on sleep—and the connection between sleep problems and neurodegeneration—are a critical piece of the whole health outcomes puzzle,” said Dr. Bubu. “By prioritizing sleep in patient education and promoting adherence to effective treatments for sleep problems, physicians may be able to help their patients effectively slow the onset and progression of cognitive decline.” Psychiatry, Neurology Omonigho M. Bubu, MD, PhD, MPH, an associate professor of psychiatry, neurology, and population health, is director of the Aging Research in Sleep Equity and Dementia Prevention Program. His research explores the association between sleep disorders and dementia, and the social determinants of Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. Predicting Discharge Destination after Joint Replacement Ran Schwarzkopf, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health In a retrospective study of more than 20,000 patients undergoing total knee or hip arthroplasty, NYU Langone Health researchers reported the first validated decision-making tool that predicts discharge to home versus inpatient rehabilitation or a skilled nursing facility. Within bundled payment models for total joint arthroplasty, costs are higher for discharge to rehabilitation or a skilled nursing facility, but that level of care is often necessary for better patient recovery. “Sometimes, our patients are not physically or mentally ready to go home alone and take care of themselves,” says orthopedic surgeon and senior study author Ran Schwarzkopf, MD . “They need some environment to care for them until they’re able to do that.” Dr. Schwarzkopf led a group of colleagues from across the nation in developing an online prediction model consisting of nine preoperative parameters to identify high-risk patients (Figure 1). The focus on parameters easily pulled from the electronic medical record enables discharge planning to occur well in advance of surgery. Figure 1. The nine preoperative variables used in a new tool for predicting discharge to home versus inpatient facilities following total hip or knee replacement. ASA; American Society of Anesthesiologists. Adapted From: Ortiz D 3rd, et al. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2022;104(17):1579-1585. Compared to simple random selection, the clinical decision-making tool yielded a 79 percent improvement in positive predictive value and a 56 percent decrease in the number needed to screen to identify 1 true positive (Figure 2). Figure 2. The new tool performed better at predicting discharge destination compared to random selection, or the absence of a tool. Adapted From: Ortiz D 3rd, et al. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2022;104(17):1579-1585. The study also indicated that 15.5 percent of the patients qualified for rehabilitation, which Dr. Schwarzkopf notes is to be expected for a tertiary referral center that often sees patients with comorbidities. “Not only does it help a patient meet expectations and prepare, it also helps the family or caregivers.” The tool, he says, merits consideration for clinical use because of its value for patient counseling, preoperative optimization, and discharge planning. “Not only does it help a patient meet expectations and prepare, it also helps the family or caregivers,” he says. “In addition, it helps the system prepare better for where to do the surgery and what to expect for the patient after the surgery.” Orthopedic Surgery, Hip & Knee Reconstruction Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, is a professor of orthopedic surgery, associate chief of the Division of Adult Reconstruction Surgery, director of the Adult Reconstruction Research Center, and associate director of the NYU Langone Orthopedic Residency Program. He specializes in hip and knee conditions, with a particular interest in degenerative joint disease. Free Flap Reconstruction: Is Surgical Delay Okay? Jacques H. Hacquebord, MD (left) and Omri B. Ayalon, MD (right). Source: NYU Langone Health For an open fracture or neurovascular injury to an extremity that requires definitive soft tissue coverage through a flap, orthopedic researchers have agreed that it’s best to perform a free flap reconstruction as soon as possible. In reality, however, scheduling and other conflicts can delay the time to coverage. Some surgeons have maintained that improved technology has lessened the urgency. Others have pointed to the potential existence of a temporary “inflammatory period” during which reconstruction should be avoided. Within this time frame, it’s proposed that irritated blood vessels may heighten the risk of thrombosis and surgical failure. systematic review and meta-analysis led by orthopedic surgeon , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health support the general consensus that immediate reconstruction within three days is most effective. Beyond that window, however, the study has suggested a relatively nonlinear relationship between time and outcomes. “Get to free flap reconstruction as early as possible: the evidence is very strong that less than three days is important.” “The most objective advice I can give other surgeons is get to free flap reconstruction as early as possible: the evidence is very strong that less than three days is important,” says Dr. Hacquebord, co-director of the multidisciplinary A Matter of Time Over 1,400 free flap reconstructions from 21 qualifying studies were included in the analyses. “One big takeaway is that the relationship between time and outcomes is nuanced,” Dr. Hacquebord says. “It’s not just the longer you wait, the worse the outcome.” Reconstructions performed between three and seven days after injuries showed significantly higher rates of infections, bone nonunions, and reoperations than did reconstructions done outside this window (Figure 1). Figure 1. Percentage rates of infection, bone nonunion, and reoperation outcomes are plotted against four date ranges, which correspond to the number of days elapsed after the patient’s injury before surgeons performed the free flap reconstruction. Adapted From: Sanchez-Navarro G, et al. Effect of Timing on Outcomes of Free Flap Reconstruction Following Traumatic Injury to the Exremety: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Poster presented the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Annual Meeting. Feb 2024. Las Vegas, NV. By contrast, no clear trends were observed for rates of flap failure, partial flap failure, and other complications (Figure 2). Figure 2. Percentage rates of flap failure, partial flap failure, and other complications. Adapted from: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Annual Meeting. Sanchez-Navarro G, et al. In addition, the study showed no significant differences in reconstructions performed between 7 to 30 days or after 30 days postinjury. Further Research Required Dr. Hacquebord cautions that more investigation is needed to fully understand the implications of these findings for surgical interventions occurring after the three-day window. “What we can say is that the middle window of time is associated with a higher rate of infection, bone nonunion, and reoperation,” he says. More-granular studies of the time to coverage and patient outcomes and complications could clarify whether an “inflammatory period” or other factors are contributing to the difference. For surgeries that cannot occur within that three-day window, he advises optimizing the patients and paying close attention to all intraoperative and postoperative findings as they relate to time. Amplifying the Impact of Nuclear Cardiology Beyond Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease The president of the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology shares insights into new roles for the imaging technique. Obstetrics & Gynecology Computer-Assisted Navigation Is Safe & Effective for TSA The glenoid component is a weak link in total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA), and glenoid loosening is a common cause of failure. Computer-assisted navigation (CAN) can help surgeons precisely and accurately implant glenoid components and correct deformities. Although the method has surged in popularity, no studies had evaluated its intraoperative efficacy and safety during shoulder replacement until a retrospective review by NYU Langone Health researchers. Their study assessed 16,723 TSA cases (anatomic and reverse) performed worldwide with CAN, finding the technology to be extremely user-friendly: in 98 percent of cases, surgeons completed every step of the navigation procedure without abandoning it intraoperatively. “Computer-assisted navigation surgery is safe, reliable, and has a high efficacy with a quick learning curve.” Mandeep S. Virk, MD The analysis, Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery , also revealed that CAN is reliable and reproducible, with minimal deviation in intraoperative execution of the preoperative plan. The researchers reported a low complication rate in their series, with only nine fractures (0.05 percent) of the coracoid bone. “The take-home message is that computer-assisted navigation surgery is safe, reliable, and has a high efficacy with a quick learning curve,” says lead author and orthopedic surgeon Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery “It’s a large database study including all TSAs performed with computer navigation up to the time of publication. The comprehensive design, I think, is the real hallmark of this study.” Computer-Captured Measurements Dr. Virk and colleagues have used the CAN system for TSAs since 2018. Prior to each surgery, surgeons plan out the procedure on a computer using the system’s software. The preoperative plan includes determining the size and alignment of the glenoid implant in the coronal (inclination) and axial (version) planes. The plan is then transferred to a computer station, which is used inside the operating room. The navigation procedure involves use of multiple infrared trackers, which are placed on the surgical tools and on the patient’s shoulder; these trackers communicate with the computer station to generate a virtual 2D and 3D model of the patient’s shoulder on the computer screen. The surgeon uses real-time feedback from the computer station while performing surgery to implant the glenoid component with precision and accuracy, as determined preoperatively. Interactive Guidance The study showed minimal deviation in intraoperative execution of the preoperative plans with respect to version, inclination, and starting point on the glenoid face. Because the completion rate and deviation between preoperative and intraoperative execution are captured by the CAN system itself, Dr. Virk points out, the analysis is free of any potential bias from surgeon-reported data. The comprehensive design is the real hallmark of this study.” Additionally, the low rate of fractures of the coracoid bone, where the navigation tracker is attached next to the glenoid, suggests that the procedure is safe. “Having an interactive navigation tool allows me to make sure that what I have planned for a shoulder implant prior to surgery I can do with high accuracy using live feedback from a computer,” Dr. Virk says. “If I am doing shoulder replacement without any kind of feedback and relying purely on anatomic landmarks, that becomes very challenging in complex revision surgeries and in the presence of severe glenoid deformities.” Dr. Virk is a paid consultant for Exactech. Mandeep S. Virk, MD, is an associate professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of the Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery. He specializes in computer-navigated shoulder replacements as well as the Latarjet procedure, arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs, and labral repairs. Getting Clarity on Inpatient Falls after Knee Replacement Joshua C. Rozell, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Inpatient falls after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) can lead to patient injury and delay postoperative recovery. Orthopedic surgeons often use adductor canal blocks (ACBs) during such surgeries to improve pain control, but some experts have raised concerns over whether the blocks might contribute to the loss of proprioception and motor or sensory function and predispose patients to falls. Tourniquets can improve perioperative visibility but have prompted similar concerns: that they could impair quadriceps muscle function and contribute to postoperative inpatient falls. “Using tourniquets and blocks, even in combination, doesn’t have any significant effect on inpatient falls and can be used safely for knee replacement.” Joshua C. Rozell, MD of nearly 6,500 patients who underwent an elective TKA and stayed at least one night in the hospital at NYU Langone Health, however, found no association between fall incidence and the use of a tourniquet, an ACB, or both together. Instead, the patient safety study pointed to longer lengths of stay as increasing fall risk, leading to higher all-cause revision rates. “Our validating study showed that using tourniquets and blocks, even in combination, doesn’t have any significant effect on inpatient falls and can be used safely for knee replacement,” says study co-author and orthopedic surgeon Low Fall Incidence The study found a low occurrence rate of inpatient falls: 2.7 falls per 1,000 patient-days. Of the 6,472 patients included in the study, 39 sustained falls, most commonly on postoperative days one and two. The patients who fell had significantly longer lengths of stay (3 days versus 2.3 days) and higher revision rates at latest follow-up (10.3 percent versus 2 percent) than their counterparts who didn’t fall. Of the 39 patients who fell, 6 sustained minor injuries and 1 sustained an ankle fracture that did not require further surgery. The research, Dr. Rozell says, highlights the collaborative, multidisciplinary efforts of the arthroplasty program’s surgeons, nurses, anesthesiologists, physical and occupational therapists, and case managers. The important observation that neither tourniquets nor ACBs increased the low fall rates, he adds, suggests that both perioperative TKA interventions can be safely used, based on a surgeon’s comfort level. “If a surgeon feels comfortable performing the surgery with a tourniquet, I don’t think there’s any significant detriment to using one,” he says. “In general, I also think the adductor canal block is a useful adjunct to help with postoperative pain control and limiting the amount of opioids that patients require.” Setting Patient Expectations Teasing out the most significant risk factors may require larger-scale studies, Dr. Rozell cautions. As part of preoperative optimization, however, he emphasizes the importance of screening based on patients’ home environments, medical comorbidities, and other factors that could contribute to a longer length of stay, higher likelihood of revision, and overall fall risk. “Understanding the risk factors for falls preoperatively can help us prepare patients more appropriately for after the surgery,” he says. “Sometimes patients feel that they have to progress at a faster rate than is anticipated, so they do too much too soon and potentially run into issues.” A critical part of that preparation, Dr. Rozell adds, is setting expectations about knee pain and function after the TKA surgery. “Sometimes patients feel that they have to progress at a faster rate than is anticipated, so they do too much too soon and potentially run into issues,” he says. “I think that preoperative education of the patient, tempering their expectations, and making sure they understand the type and amount of pain they’re going to be in after the surgery is very important.” Hip and Knee Reconstruction Joshua C. Rozell, MD, is an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery and director of patient-reported outcomes research. He specializes in anterior approach hip replacement, computer-navigated and robotic knee replacements, and outpatient joint replacement surgery. Second Trimester TAVR Paves the Way for a Safe Pregnancy & Delivery Remarkable recovery and uncomplicated birth are welcome outcomes following the diagnosis of critical aortic stenosis. Dual Targeting Approach Overcomes Sensitization in Heart Transplantation A heart failure expert details the novel protocol targeting plasma cells and B cell–T cell interactions with existing drugs. Existing Chest CTs Inform Risk of Heart Attack or Death Following Surgery Scoring coronary calcium from non-gated chest CTs shown to predict risk of postsurgical cardiac events. Transcatheter Management of a Rare Case of Congenital LV to CS Fistula For a newborn with a rare heart defect, advanced catheterization techniques and imaging offer a path to recovery. Presenters at the 2023 ACC Scientific Sessions NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons joined international colleagues in New Orleans, March 4–6. Maternal Death Rates May Be Overestimated For the past two decades, public health assessments in the United States have raised concerns over sharply increasing rates of maternal mortality. However, doubts have lingered regarding the accuracy of these estimates, and a study recently published in the American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology challenges the prevailing estimates, and presents evidence that this is likely a methodological artifact. According to the National Vital Statistics System (NVSS) of the CDC, maternal mortality rates increased by 144 percent between 1999 and 2021, from 9.7 to 23.6 per 100,000 live births. For most of that period, the NVSS/CDC identified maternal mortality by relying on the pregnancy checkbox introduced in 2003 and that now appears on all US death certificates. “Our findings suggest that the pregnancy checkbox is squarely responsible for a substantial misclassification of deaths.” “What we found was more reassuring,” says at NYU Langone Health and a co-author of the study. “Rates of maternal mortality were essentially stable, though we clearly need to do better—especially in addressing the persistent racial and ethnic disparities.” Pitfalls of the Pregnancy Checkbox The pregnancy checkbox was designed to correct prior undercounting of maternal deaths, though experts have long recognized that it could drive distortions in the opposite direction. Reported maternal mortality rates rose sharply in the years after its introduction in 2003, but subsequent studies by the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) showed the increase to be an artifact. Errors of ascertainment and misclassification were common. For example, hundreds of women aged ≥70 years were certified as having been pregnant at the time of death or in the year before. These errors led the CDC to stop reporting the official US maternal mortality rates between 2004 and 2017. In 2018, the NCHS implemented new guidelines restricting use of the checkbox to deaths of pregnant people aged 15 to 44 years. Nonetheless, reported rates continued to soar , nearly doubling between 2018 and 2021. “My colleagues and I were skeptical of those numbers, in part because they didn’t align with data from the CDC’s pregnancy mortality surveillance system or state-based mortality review committees,” says Dr. Brandt. Redefining Cause of Death Suspecting the methodology was unreliable, a multinational research team analyzed the data using a broader approach. Dr. Brandt and colleagues examined a census of all maternal and pregnancy-related deaths from 1999 to 2021. Data were obtained from the NCHS multiple-causes-of-death files which contain information transcribed from death certificates. The files include a single underlying cause of death and up to 20 contributing causes. The team used two formulations to identify maternal deaths: The current NVSS and NCHS methodology, which includes deaths in pregnancy or in the postpartum period, including deaths identified solely because of a positive pregnancy checkbox. An alternative, definition-based premise, requiring at least one mention of pregnancy among the immediate, intermediate, or underlying causes of mortality on the death certificate. The latter formulation was intended to identify only the deaths caused by pregnancy or its management, which epidemiologists refer to as maternal deaths. These are defined as deaths that occur while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by pregnancy or its management, but not from accidental or incidental causes. The researchers hypothesized that overreliance on the pregnancy checkbox led to the misclassification of many deaths that occurred during or immediately after pregnancy, but that were caused by factors unrelated to pregnancy. While these cases may have been classified on death certificates as maternal deaths, epidemiologists define these as being pregnancy-associated deaths. “We should work to achieve better ascertainment of maternal deaths and then focus on the areas where there’s real risk.” Using the alternative, definition-based premise, the researchers recharacterized deaths identified by the NVSS solely because of a positive pregnancy checkbox as pregnancy-associated deaths, not maternal deaths. A Clearer Picture Emerges With this definition-based approach, the team found maternal mortality rates to have increased only 2 percent between 1999 and 2021, from 10.2 to 10.4 per 100,000 live births. The drop in maternal mortality rates based on the new formulation brings the US rates well within the range of other high-income countries “We saw a decline in direct obstetric deaths, defined as maternal deaths resulting from obstetric complications of the pregnant state, or from treatments related to that state,” says Dr. Brandt. “That makes sense because obstetric care has improved in the last 20 years. We are better capable of managing obstetrical hemorrhage, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, thromboembolism, and other areas.” On a more granular level, however, the news was less comforting. Indirect obstetrical deaths—those resulting from previously existing disease or disease that developed during pregnancy and was aggravated by the physiologic effects of pregnancy—rose by 46 percent. Late maternal deaths, from either direct or indirect causes and occurring more than 42 days but less than one year after pregnancy, increased 329 percent. And though maternal mortality rates decreased among pregnant people who were non-Hispanic Black and Hispanic, they remained disproportionately higher for Black people than for other cohorts. Calling for a Course Correction “Our findings suggest that the pregnancy checkbox is squarely responsible for a substantial misclassification of deaths, and a consequent overestimation of maternal mortality,” says Dr. Brandt. “We need a course correction, so that we can direct our attention and our efforts more effectively.” Still, he adds, the study offers no grounds for complacency. “We should work to achieve better ascertainment of maternal deaths and then focus on the areas where there’s real risk. Those disparities in death rates are where we should be channeling more support and funding.” Chasing Down Complications of Untreated Infective Endocarditis Patient’s transthoracic echocardiogram revealing an abscess near the aortic root. The Root Cause of a Months-Long Illness A 19-year-old male with a congenitally diagnosed bicuspid aortic valve presented to the pediatric emergency department at with a 5-month history of fatigue, intermittent cough and fever, rashes, weight loss, and migrating joint pain. During the five weeks prior to arriving at NYU Langone and being referred to pediatric cardiologists Tasneem F. Hoque, MD , specialists with , he developed night sweats, and his fevers became daily and continuous. After an initial transthoracic echocardiogram revealed multiple vegetations and blood cultures were positive for Streptococcus mutans , they established a working diagnosis of infective endocarditis (IE). A follow-up MRA of the brain showed multiple small septic emboli. “In patients with a known history of valve malformations and these symptoms, clinicians must maintain a high clinical index of suspicion for IE.” “Before coming to us, the patient had previously been seen by a pediatric cardiologist at another institution who did not consider the diagnosis of IE,” Dr. Better says. “In patients with a known history of valve malformations and these symptoms, clinicians must maintain a high clinical index of suspicion for IE to prevent morbidity and mortality.” Because of concern for potential deterioration and need for cardiothoracic surgical intervention, the patient was transferred to NYU Langone’s and put under the care of cardiothoracic surgeon , and cardiologist “The strong and seamless collaboration and communication between our pediatric and adult congenital heart programs saved this patient’s life.” Transesophageal echocardiography confirmed vegetations on both the aortic and mitral valves, while further imaging of the abdomen ordered secondary to abdominal pain revealed a splenic abscess. Given extensive involvement of the aortic valve that resulted in both stenosis and severe regurgitation, the decision was made to replace the aortic valve using the patient’s own pulmonary valve, also called the Ross procedure. “We first elected to perform laparoscopic splenectomy to reduce the burden of disease and risk of reinfection before proceeding with the Ross operation,” Dr. Kumar says. “The strong and seamless collaboration and communication between our pediatric and adult congenital heart programs saved this patient’s life.” “Within a few days of surgery, the patient was back to normal activities. Follow-up echocardiograms revealed a perfectly functioning aortic valve,” Dr. Kumar says. Transthoracic Echocardiogram Reveals Vegetations The patient’s echocardiogram showing mitral valve vegetations. A patient with a bicuspid aortic valve presented with persistent fever, rashes and joint pain. Specialists diagnosed the patient with infective endocarditis after an initial transthoracic echocardiogram showed two small masses on the anterior leaflet of the mitral valve, each about 5 by 12 millimeters in size, and blood cultures came back positive. More Insight from Transesophageal Echocardiography The patient’s echocardiogram showing aortic valve vegetations. Additional echocardiography revealed vegetations on the aortic valve. Treating the Multi-Organ Infection The patient’s echocardiogram demonstrating aortic root abscess. Further imaging revealed an aortic root abscess plus multiple septic brain emboli, a splenic abscess, and renal infarction. The aortic valve was successfully replaced using a pulmonary autograft (Ross) procedure, during which the mitral valve vegetations were removed. The infection to the spleen necessitated its removal and the remaining infections were treated with postoperative antibiotics. Donna J. Better, MD, is a clinical associate professor of pediatrics and site director of pediatric cardiology at NYU Langone Children’s Ambulatory Care Center—Mineola. Driving Forward Discoveries in Autoimmune Disease Jose U. Scher, MD , the Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine and associate director of research and translational medicine in the Division of Rheumatology , is director of NYU Langone Health’s Judith and Stewart Colton Center for Autoimmunity . Established to enhance understanding of autoimmune and immune-mediated disease, the Colton Center translates groundbreaking discoveries into new diagnostic tools and treatments. As the center’s new leader, Dr. Scher brings a wealth of experience in collaborating across research disciplines to uncover new targets for autoimmunity treatment. Here, he shares his vision for the center’s future, and why he believes the next big autoimmune discovery will come from a specialty outside of rheumatology. Shaping the Future of Autoimmune Discovery Dr. Scher, when you consider your priorities as director of the Colton Center, what are the key areas of opportunity you see ahead? Dr. Scher: First, I see an opportunity to build on the collaboration the center is known for and substantially expand interdisciplinary collaboration both within and beyond NYU Langone. I am convinced that we will only identify new targets for better therapeutics in autoimmune and immune-mediated diseases by bringing together a full spectrum of researchers, from epidemiologists, cell biologists, and biostatisticians to rheumatologists and immunologists, of course, but also dermatologists, gastroenterologists, and collaborators in other disciplines. “We will only identify new targets for better therapeutics in autoimmune and immune-mediated diseases by bringing together a full spectrum of researchers.” My second priority for the center is to pursue computational precision medicine–driven approaches in the study of autoimmune disease. While we’ve seen significant improvement in the therapies we can offer patients, we still lack the personalized approach to care that can be unlocked by using digital markers and artificial intelligence in our diagnostic tools and treatments. Collaborating Toward the Next Breakthrough Why is working across disciplines so important to the next phase of autoimmune research? The last significant breakthrough in the treatment of inflammatory autoimmune disease was the application of TNF inhibitors—which were originally developed for the treatment of sepsis—in conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, and psoriatic arthritis. The idea that these medications could be efficacious in autoimmune disease was suggested by Dr. Jan T. Vilcek , a world-renowned microbiologist here at NYU Langone. While TNF inhibitors remain highly effective, nothing that has come after them has proven to be superior. Discovery has hit a plateau. “Our ultimate goal is to be a center that can nimbly move bench discovery into clinically meaningful outcomes at the bedside.” I’m convinced that the next disruptive solution will emerge through the meeting of multiple minds and disciplines. Rheumatologists are often called “doctors’ doctors” because we must understand and incorporate multiple aspects of biology, medicine, and immunology to solve the enigma of autoimmune disease. I see the Colton Center as a catalytic facilitator to bring the pieces of discovery together and hopefully find that next disruptive breakthrough. Harnessing Technology to Personalize Care What are some of the specific technology-driven approaches you’re interested in applying to the study of autoimmune disease? There’s enormous opportunity to use technology to tie together the clinical, molecular, and digital features of a disease and its progression in order to direct more precise treatment. For example, in arthritis we are currently using functional tools such as step counts to predict progression; how could we incorporate those tools with radiographic assessments or sensor-derived data? In psoriasis, what diagnostic value does the pixelation of a skin image offer? Researchers have begun to apply machine learning algorithms to explore how medications can be tailored to each patient, but it remains siloed. There’s so much to be gained through collaboration. Expediting the Discovery Lifecycle Looking ahead, what do you see as the near-term opportunities for impact? We can help to accelerate discovery by providing an agile, collaborative environment where our researchers can expand and enhance what they’re already working on. The work of Dr. David B. Beck , an inaugural Colton Scholar, is a prime example; his research in discovering and characterizing VEXAS syndrome laid the groundwork for ongoing research at the center into new diagnostic tools and treatment pathways for the condition. We can also help to expedite the movement of novel treatment targets and compounds into later-stage development so they reach patients sooner. For example, a compound our researchers discovered for the treatment of myasthenia gravis is now in early-stage clinical trial. Our ultimate goal is to be a center that can nimbly move bench discovery into clinically meaningful outcomes at the bedside. Jose U. Scher, MD, is the Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, associate director of research and translational medicine in the Division of Rheumatology, and director of the Judith and Stewart Colton Center for Autoimmunity, the Psoriatic Arthritis Center, and the Microbiome Center for Rheumatology and Autoimmunity. Latest in Rheumatology 212-263-7349 Vestibular Testing At NYU Langone’s Hearing and Balance Center, audiologists provide children and adults with a full range of audiologic testing, as well as hearing aid evaluation, fitting, and follow-up care. We also offer adults and children to diagnose inner ear conditions affecting balance. Children with vestibular and balance disorders receive treatment through Our Team-Based Approach Our audiologists collaborate with otolaryngologists—ear, nose, and throat doctors—as well as providers at NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates , neurologists, and pediatric specialists to provide compassionate, team-based care. We diagnose and create personalized treatment plans for the following conditions: otosclerosis, a condition affecting the stapes bone in your middle ear , which is ringing in your ears Eligible children and adults with hearing impairments may choose to be evaluated by providers at NYU Langone’s to determine suitability for a surgically placed cochlear implant or an auditory brainstem implant Care may also involve referrals for speech–language pathology services for , and any necessary educational support for your child. Hearing Tests Our experts perform a variety of hearing assessments , including audiometric hearing tests to evaluate the level of hearing loss in adults and older children. These tests occur in a soundproof booth, while you wear headphones that transmit various sounds to each ear. Your ability to detect these sounds help our doctors to determine which type of hearing loss is causing your symptoms. Specialized Care for Children We provide hearing assessments and treatment plans for children of all ages. If your infant does not pass universal newborn hearing screening, our audiologists provide additional screening and care. We may perform an otoacoustic emissions test to assess how well your baby’s inner ear works. Our audiologist may also use an auditory brainstem response (ABR) test. This test records how well sound travels from the inner ear to the brainstem and upper auditory area, to measure the lowest level of sound your baby can hear. We also provide child-friendly audiometric hearing tests. These assessments may include visual reinforcement, conditioned play, or interactive games, which help our audiologists evaluate even the most active kids. Auditory processing evaluations are recommended for children who have normal hearing but difficulty processing sound when there is background noise. This assessment can help diagnose an auditory processing disorder, which makes it harder for the brain to understand speech. We also work with members of the speech and hearing services team at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone to assess children who have speech delays and to rule out whether hearing loss may be the cause. In addition, we create treatment plans for children who have frequent middle ear infections associated with hearing loss. Hearing Aid Evaluation and Fitting If you or your child has , our experienced audiologists can help select the right hearing aid and demonstrate how it works. We specialize in custom fitting hearing aids and provide follow-up care to ensure that they are working properly. During fitting appointments, an audiologist inserts a probe microphone into the ear canal to precisely measure the sound and confirm that you receive the proper amplification level for your specific hearing loss. Our audiologists also provide information about assistive listening devices, which increase the sound of a telephone, television, or computer. If you experience severe hearing loss in one ear, our audiologists can help you choose the proper hearing amplifier. We provide a wide range of single-sided deafness devices. These include the contralateral routing of signals (CROS) system, which uses two hearing aids to transfer sound to your nonfunctional ear. We also offer a selection of bone-conduction hearing devices, which work by transferring sounds directly to your cochlea, a hollow tube in your inner ear. Our team includes experts in audiology, hearing loss, tinnitus, and vertigo. Erin Byrd AUD Audiologist Jaclyn B. Castoro Emily K. Lancaster Irina Ozersky Marisa Viets 516-663-4600 516-663-3793 Family Travel Medicine Center At the Family Travel Medicine Center at , we provide personalized care and medical recommendations for you and your family based on your specific travel destination. Our goal is to ensure that you receive appropriate immunizations and preventive medications, as well as information you need to help prevent illness and injuries during your trip abroad. Your visit to the Family Travel Medicine Center includes a comprehensive health assessment that takes into consideration your immunization history, current medications, and overall health. Together, we discuss potential risks, such as infectious diseases, safe food and beverages, contact with animals and insects, and high altitudes. We prepare you to handle symptoms that can arise when traveling abroad, and can advise you on who to contact in case of an emergency. We also address any specific health concerns you may have, such as asthma in children , or seasonal and food allergies. Upon your return, we can evaluate children who experienced fever, flu-like symptoms, skin infections, or other post-travel–related illness. We provide treatment for the following conditions: Japanese encephalitis measles mumps parasitic infections tick-borne illness , including chikungunya, dengue fever, malaria, typhoid fever, and yellow fever traveler’s diarrhea varicella, commonly known as chicken pox Zika virus Vaccinations We Provide We provide the following vaccinations: cholera hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and the combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, also known as TWINRIX measles, mumps, and rubella, also known as MMR meningococcal pneumococcal polio rabies tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis, also known as Tdap typhoid yellow fever As an authorized yellow fever vaccination center, we provide an International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis, also known as an ICVP card. Care for Children Our board-certified pediatric infectious disease specialists identify potential health risks and make age-specific recommendations using the most up-to-date guidance on emerging global infections. A child’s immune system is still maturing, which can make them more susceptible to certain diseases. Children also have different behaviors and health risks. Vaccine recommendations and preventive medications for children are usually different than for adults. To schedule an appointment, please call us at at least four weeks before travel to allow time to prepare and receive any needed immunizations. Our pediatric infectious disease specialists provide personalized care and prepare both adults and children to travel safely. Theresa M. Fiorito Asif Noor Pediatric Infectious Disease Doctor We are open Monday through Friday from 8:00AM to 4:00PM. Biomarkers of Neurodegeneration Elevated in Patients with Severe COVID-19 Study finds some biomarkers exceed levels found in patients with Alzheimer’s disease. Severe Hearing Loss: Exploring Unmet Needs Among Veterans New research probes factors influencing treatment for those with severe hearing loss. Physiatrists Set National Framework for COVID-19 Rehab and “Long COVID” Rusk Rehabilitation faculty help shape national standards for inpatient care and treating post-acute sequelae. Early Neurorehabilitation Shows Promise in Disorders of Consciousness after COVID-19 More than half of severely impaired patients demonstrate improvements in responsiveness before discharge. Rusk Rehabilitation: 75 Years Strong Join us in NYC for a conference and celebration presented by NYU Langone Health. Vocal Fold Mucosa-Muscle Interactions Revealed for First Time Cell-level interactions suggests a promising new avenue for research on laryngeal dysfunction and voice disorders. A New Tool For Measuring Stroke Rehabilitation patients with stroke who experience significant motor impairment in an upper extremity, rehabilitation seeks to accelerate motor recovery by training functional activities. However, the optimal quantity of functional motions to augment motor recovery has remained unknown without practical tools to measure them during rehabilitation. “The rate limiting step for stroke rehabilitation is counting movements, especially for the arms, which unlike the legs, do not have regular, repetitive kinematics,” says , an associate professor of neurology and rehabilitation medicine. Dr. Schambra and , at New York University, and their research teams are the developers of PrimSeq, a new deep learning-based digital tool to identify and quantify functional movements during stroke rehabilitation. “The tool has been built to recognize functional movements, like a reach or a transport, by their motion patterns. Once recognized, the tool can count them,” says Dr. Schambra. “The tool has been built to recognize functional movements, like a reach or a transport, by their motion patterns. Once recognized, the tool can count them.” Design and Development The PrimSeq pipeline was designed to accurately measure motor therapy through the rapid counting of building-block functional movements, called primitives. “Our research so far shows that rehabilitation activities can be accurately decomposed into these elemental movements,” notes Dr. Schambra. “Much like words in a paragraph, primitives are strung together to execute an activity.” The approach integrates three components: wearable sensors to capture upper-body motion, a deep learning model to classify primitives from their motion patterns, and an algorithm to quantify the primitives. To build the approach, the research team collected extensive motion data from stroke patients performing rehabilitation activities, using human experts to divide up the motion into types of primitives. The primitives and their associated patterns of motion data were fed to a deep learning model. Once trained, the approach accurately identifies and tallies these functional movements at a fraction of the time and labor costs of human experts, says Dr. Schambra. A Promising Option for Stroke Patients In a recent publication, the research teams showed that the PrimSeq algorithm precisely counts functional primitives completed by stroke patients and outperformed other benchmark algorithms. Further results demonstrated that patients tolerated the wearable sensors, and also showed that the approach is 366 times faster at counting primitives than humans. Based on these findings, the study concludes that PrimSeq provides a precise and practical way of quantifying arm movements in stroke rehabilitation, offering a promising platform to further advance both research and clinical care. “Our goal is to continue training the algorithm in inpatient rehabilitation settings, then expand to outpatient settings,” says Dr. Schambra. “In research contexts, the generalizability depends in part on the adoption of functional primitives as units of measure.” While the trained model outperforms other best-in-class models, further refinement is needed, and the researchers plan to continue optimization. “The model performs well, with a sensitivity of 77 percent, but we want to continue to improve its accuracy,” says Dr. Schambra. “Long-term, we’d like to package and release this tool as a software, as well as explore its potential in other rehabilitation domains.” In the meantime, the teams have made the data and source code for their algorithm available online to foster collaboration among researchers. Mitigating the Developmental Impact of Poverty at Pediatric Checkups Accessible tools and interventions aid caregivers in supporting children’s healthy development. Uncovering the Biological Basis of Intergenerational Trauma Brain changes in utero confirm trauma-associated developmental risk factors passed from mother to baby. Raman Spectroscopy Aids Detection of Lung Cancers New tech helps to assess multiple characteristics of small bronchoscopic biopsies. A Successful Triple Transplant for Heart, Lungs, and Kidney Thirteen-hour OR procedure entails a close partnership of transplant surgeons and specialists. Research Spotlight Longer View Supports ECMO for Patients with Severe COVID-19 At one year, patients experienced noteworthy short- and long-term outcomes. Evidence for Music’s Power in Dementia Care Arts-based interventions benefit those with cognitive decline and their caregivers, suggests mounting research. Improving Precision Diagnosis of Lung Nodules 3D robotic bronchoscopy reduces the need for more invasive procedures. Mapping the Future of Rehabilitation Medicine Physical medicine and rehabilitation was first recognized as a specialty by the American Board of Medical Specialties in 1947, established through the pioneering work of internal medicine physician Howard A. Rusk, MD . Dr. Rusk also founded NYU Langone Health’s , built with the vision of providing patients with high-quality care and the recovery resources needed to lead full and rewarding lives. Today, , continues to advance Dr. Rusk’s vision as chair of rehabilitation medicine and the Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine. Dr. Flanagan also serves as the incoming president of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (AAPM&R) . Here, he discusses the further evolution of the specialty. The Essential Role of Physiatry Dr. Flanagan, what sparked your initial interest in rehabilitation medicine? Dr. Flanagan: Growing up, I was interested in the nervous system and psychology, specifically the biology of human behavior. As a medical student, I was deliberating between neurology and psychiatry, but instead chose physiatry, after first encountering it in my third year. In rehabilitation medicine, you’re able to develop longer-term relationships with patients, which is vastly different than many other specialties. In physiatry, we don’t focus on one organ system or age group. We focus on disability, which can arise from injury to any organ system. Our role is essential to promote overall health and function for patients—our goal is for them to live as independently as possible. National Leadership: Increasing Visibility and Specialization You’re the incoming president of the AAPM&R. Can you describe your vision for the role? The benefit of being in this type of leadership position is that you’re afforded the opportunity to advocate for the speciality at a national level. In my view, physiatry is the best-kept secret in medicine, and we don’t want it to be a secret anymore. During my term, I hope to increase awareness of the value physiatrists bring to the table. “Physiatry is the best kept secret in medicine, and we don’t want it to be a secret anymore.” For example, if our goal is to achieve better patient outcomes and experiences, and to become more efficient, which translates to “more cost-effective” for institutions, we need both patients and other specialties to realize the value of physical medicine and rehabilitation. What are the most exciting opportunities ahead for the growth of the specialty? Physiatry is a relatively new specialty. Over the course of time, it has become more diversified, encompassing the entire spectrum of disability. One recent development, for example, is the conception of oncological rehabilitation, defined as the treatment of disabilities related to cancer or cancer treatment. Other subspecialties that have emerged since the specialty was first recognized are musculoskeletal and pain rehabilitation. In the coming years, I expect physiatry will continue to grow, and I’m glad to be part of it. Rusk Rehabilitation’s Legacy of Innovation NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation is one of the most renowned rehabilitation locations in the country, with a storied history. What makes it unique? Rusk Rehabilitation was the first fully integrated, university-based rehabilitation program in the world, and next year marks our 75th anniversary. At Rusk Rehabilitation, our physiatrists focus on a specific area of rehabilitation medicine; some examples include cardiopulmonary, central nervous system, limb loss, pediatric, pain, musculoskeletal, sports medicine, spine, and pelvic floor dysfunction. We have some very specific niches as well, including one of the best vestibular rehabilitation programs in the country. Our limb loss program is also exceptionally strong. But most importantly, we provide complex rehabilitation for complex patients. Recently, we were involved in the care of a patient who received the world’s first —no other institutions are doing cases like these. Rusk Rehabilitation is also a magnet for education and research. We train medical students, residents, therapy students, and psychologists, and our research draws top talent from around the world. Steven R. Flanagan, MD, is chair of rehabilitation medicine and the Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine. He is the president of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. His research interests center on rehabilitation strategies for stroke, concussion, and traumatic brain injury. Probing Long COVID’s Driving Factors & Relative Risks In the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic, clinicians anticipated that many patients who were hospitalized or who had more severe disease might experience the lingering symptoms of a chronic pulmonary disease. “What we found is that other patients who had mild or even asymptomatic disease, weeks to months later, were also developing symptoms like shortness of breath, fatigue, dizziness, and brain fog,” says pulmonologist Rany Condos, MD Estimates suggest that roughly 50 percent of patients who’ve had COVID-19 will develop post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC), or long COVID. “What we are finding in the clinic is that there continues to be an enormous need,” Dr. Condos says. “It’s not a single disease, and it may turn out that there are multiple causal processes.” To better understand the genetic and immunoinflammatory drivers and other risk factors for PASC that may point toward therapeutic targets and strategies, Dr. Condos and rheumatologist , are leading a $4.2 million NIH-funded study to characterize the patients in the program. “While the syndrome is occurring in a substantial number of people, we don’t really understand the pathophysiology or the disease mechanisms,” says Dr. Abramson, chair of the . “It’s not a single disease, and it may turn out that there are multiple causal processes.” A Long-Term Assessment of Outcomes The study will enroll more than 1,200 patients divided into three groups: one with long-term pulmonary symptoms, a second with symptoms that do not include pulmonary complaints, and a third group who have had COVID-19 but no long-lasting symptoms. “We need to make sure that we’re listening to what patients are telling us, taking that to heart, and adjusting as we go along to make sure that we collect as good a set of data as possible.” Beyond characterizing patients’ pulmonary and neurological symptoms and medical history, the study will assess their anxiety, ability to perform daily tasks, and social determinants of health. “We need to make sure that we’re listening to what patients are telling us, taking that to heart, and adjusting as we go along to make sure that we collect as good a set of data as possible,” Dr. Condos says. Collecting the data over two to four years may provide critical information about the effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection in distinct PASC groups. “Since there’s really no specific treatment to speak of the other purpose of the grant is to understand mechanisms, whether broadly speaking or for each of the different PASC subtypes, to identify targeted treatment approaches,” Dr. Abramson says. Searching for Genetic and Immunological Triggers A better understanding of those disease mechanisms may come from determining the inflammatory, immunological, genetic, and autoimmune processes driving the clinical manifestations of PASC. In acutely hospitalized patients with severe COVID-19, the virus somehow activates a cytokine-mediated, host-induced inflammation that can damage multiple organs. Dr. Abramson and colleagues report on the preprint server medRxiv that variants of the IL1RN gene seem to confer protection against severe disease . Among patients with PASC, the investigators hope to determine whether cytokine levels are persistently elevated, whether autoantibody responses have proliferated, and whether continued inflammation is more associated with a pro-inflammatory genotype of A whole genome sequencing analysis of each patient will aid the search for other candidate genes that increase the susceptibility or severity of PASC. “Even though we know there is persistent inflammation in some of these patients, we don’t know why,” Dr. Abramson says. The study may shed new light on whether a virus-induced autoimmune response or the persistence of viral particles in the gut or elsewhere drives the disease in some patients. Sifting Through Potential Risk Factors The researchers will also examine how genetic variants linked to PASC susceptibility and severity may vary across self-identified race and ethnicity. Some genetic polymorphisms, for example, may modulate immune–inflammatory responses that influence the incidence or severity of PASC syndromes in certain patient groups. “We’re trying to be very consistent, organized, and defined in terms of how we’re evaluating these patients because we’re dealing with something that has not been defined until now,” Dr. Condos says. In effect, Dr. Abramson adds, the study is an extension of the integrated clinical program that evaluates and cares for patients through the close coordination of pulmonologists, neurologists, rheumatologists, and specialists at NYU Langone’s , among others. “I think what we are offering people is some assurance that we can at least help diagnose a problem and provide supportive therapy,” he says. “That’s really important to people, otherwise they feel like it’s just in their head.” Steven Abramson, MD, is the Frederick H. King Professor of Internal Medicine and chair of the Department of Medicine. He is the executive vice president and vice dean for education, faculty, and academic affairs, and chief academic officer for NYU Langone Health. He specializes in treating and researching arthritis. Rany Condos, MD, is a clinical professor of medicine, director of the Post-COVID Care Program, and director of the Adult Cystic Fibrosis Program. She specializes in pulmonary conditions. CHEST President on the Road Ahead for Pulmonary, Critical Care & Sleep Medicine , is a pulmonary and critical care physician with an extensive background in bronchiectasis and nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infection. In January 2023, Dr. Addrizzo-Harris became president of the American College of Chest Physicians (CHEST) . Additionally, in July 2023, NYU Langone Health, a leading center in the study and treatment of bronchiectasis and NTM lung disease, will host the 6th World Bronchiectasis and NTM Conference recently spoke with Dr. Addrizzo-Harris about what she hopes to accomplish during her presidency of CHEST and her vision for the future of the subspecialty. An Inclusive Community As president of CHEST, can you share some of your goals and vision for the organization? Dr. Addrizzo-Harris: CHEST is focused on improving clinical care in pulmonary, critical care, and sleep medicine. We are already an organization that is inclusive of a variety of healthcare providers, but we can do more. We want to expand our membership to other providers who help care for our patients, including advanced practice providers, respiratory therapists, and others. We will also focus on increasing collaborations with sister societies to find new ways to reach fellows-in-training, as well as residents and medical students who are interested in pulmonary, critical care, or sleep medicine. The Role of Education and Mentoring How do you view the current state of education and mentoring within CHEST? CHEST does medical education really well, from problem-based training at our conference, to train-the-trainer events, to educational opportunities at headquarters. But the thing we do best is provide opportunities for networking and learning from the experts—not only about the subspecialty, but how to create your most robust career. “The goal is to enhance communications between trainees and key thought leaders in a way that is simple, seamless, and welcoming.” An expanded offering, particularly in the area of professional and career development, could reach even more fellows and early-career members on both a national and an international level. The goal is to enhance communications between trainees and key thought leaders in a way that is simple, seamless, and welcoming. Addressing Healthcare Disparities As an organization focused on clinical care, what types of patient health initiatives does CHEST engage in? How will you support these efforts? Access to care is a critical issue, especially in pulmonary medicine. Our Health Policy and Advocacy Committee does incredible work with thought leaders in the field to advocate for legislative changes that need to be made at both the national and local levels. I have a strong passion for the work of the CHEST Foundation , which for 25 years has been creating premier patient education tools, tackling health disparities in marginalized communities, awarding community grants, and partnering with physicians to offer better resources to patients. Throughout my presidency I will focus on how CHEST can support and integrate with the foundation’s goal of improving patient care, whether through supporting clinical research grants, expanding patient education and advocacy events, or funding programs like First 5 Minutes , designed to strengthen the rapport and trust between clinician and patient by building cultural competency and an understanding of barriers to care. Meeting Challenges Head-On What are some challenges facing CHEST, and how will you address these challenges? COVID-19 has shown us that we must be better prepared for global health emergencies. Early in the pandemic, CHEST established a large task force to address post-COVID care issues, and we will continue to evolve this effort as the pandemic evolves or other emergencies arise. All specialties, including pulmonology and critical care, have lost specialists post-COVID. For instance, rural access to specialist care is decreasing. How does telehealth feed into that? And how do we attract more medical students and trainees to pulmonary medicine? Within critical care, we did see some people leave, but now we’re seeing an increase in applications for fellowships. A challenge for all associations, CHEST included, will be redefining what associations look like now that virtual and hybrid learning has become a part of what we do on a day-to-day basis. How can we best utilize a hybrid or virtual collaboration and live events? Any closing thoughts? CHEST has many strengths, but I think our greatest is the strength of our team—our members, our faculty, our volunteer leaders, and our staff. To build on this, my presidency will include a strong communications strategy to reach, educate, and share the variety of opportunities with our members. A Legacy of Mild TBI & Impacted Cognitive Function for Military Personnel Military service members are frequently subjected to blast events during training and deployment that result in mild traumatic brain injuries (mTBIs). Evidence suggests these exposures may have long-term consequences for cognitive function. However, little is known about the cognitive sequelae, despite such events having increased in incidence in the past several decades. Jack W. Tsao, MD, DPhil , the Dr. Edwin H. Kolodny Professor of Neurology, is leading research that investigates both the short- and long-term effects of mTBIs caused by blast events and other active-duty incidents on cognitive functioning. This work includes searching for new clinical indicators such as biomarkers that may aid in identifying risks and supporting recovery. “Does being in the military and being exposed to concussions from these causes set you up for CTE and dementia at an early age? There are still many unanswered questions.” “Does being in the military and being exposed to concussions from these causes set you up for CTE [chronic traumatic encephalopathy] and dementia at an early age? There are still many unanswered questions,” says Dr. Tsao. Dr. Tsao is the former director of Traumatic Brain Injury Programs for the U.S. Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. His research harnesses his expertise in Alzheimer’s disease and dementia as well as concussion to investigate the range of long-term impacts that may be associated with mTBIs. Variance in Post-Blast Neurological Assessment In 2021, Dr. Tsao and colleagues published a study revealing acute neurocognitive deficits in active-duty service members evaluated following subconcussive blast exposures. The study used data collected with the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM) , a computer-based tool routinely used for cognitive health assessments for service members that evaluates memory, concentration, reaction time, and other neurocognitive domains. Compared to an age-matched normative population, personnel exposed to subconcussive blasts exhibited ANAM scores for reaction time tests outside the range of normal functioning. “The results highlight covert effects of subconcussive blast exposure that may warrant further monitoring in the immediate aftermath of a blast event,” the authors wrote. Longitudinal Effects of Mild Concussion While recent studies show the number of current military service members who develop CTE is small , Dr. Tsao is working with Navy researchers to explore any long-term effects of mTBI on active-duty members who served in the 1980s and 1990s. “Most of the military concussions in the 1980s were sports, motor vehicle, and training injuries,” Dr. Tsao says. “In the next two decades, we started to see more personnel exposed to blasts in combat.” The research utilizes two cohorts: a military personnel database from the Naval Health Research Center in San Diego and a national Veterans Affairs database. “These populations have been followed continuously since discharge from military service, so we can observe whether mild TBI is associated with new neurodegenerative disorders affecting individuals over time,” Dr. Tsao notes. “Early-onset dementia before the age of 65 is of great concern as it is not the norm,” he adds. “If we do discover that there is an elevated risk with a history of concussion early in life, this would require a greater focus on preventing injuries and what we could do to reduce the risk of disease.” Dr. Tsao and colleagues have identified some of the risk factors for developing long-term, but immediately noticeable, sequelae of mTBI , including multiple mTBIs, mTBIs overlapping with post-traumatic stress disorder or anxiety, mTBIs before complete recovery, and mTBIs resulting from close blast exposure. Searching for Biomarkers One path to more effectively track and manage mTBI cases could be to identify a biomarker that is easily obtained and that determines the presence and severity of a head injury, Dr. Tsao says. Unfortunately, prior research into proteins, microRNAs, and metabolites as potential biomarkers has not yet revealed a reliable standard. In a collaboration with Thomas M. Wisniewski, MD , Dr. Tsao is beginning to investigate whether changes in tau and other neuronal proteins following blast exposure and concussion can be used as biomarkers. “If there is a way to identify early who these people are, there might be a way to treat them years before they show up with clinical symptoms,” Dr. Tsao says. Jack W. Tsao, MD, DPhil, is the Dr. Edwin H. Kolodny Professor of Neurology. His research interests include dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, concussion and more severe forms of traumatic brain injury, and quality improvement in neurology. Advancing Treatment of Bronchiectasis & Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Lung Infections Bronchiectasis is characterized by chronic cough and marked by thickened, dilated airways on CT scan. Airway dilation can cause cilia impairment, failure of mucus clearance, increased risk of infection, and airway obstruction, leading to impaired lung function. The lungs of people with bronchiectasis are often colonized by harmful fungi and bacteria, including nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM). “Awareness of bronchiectasis and NTM lung disease has increased, as have incidence and prevalence ,” says , co-director of NYU Langone Health’s Bronchiectasis and NTM Multidisciplinary Program , a leading center in the management of bronchiectasis and NTM infection. “While diagnosis is often delayed two to three years or more, with increased use of chest CT scans and advanced microbiology laboratories, diagnosing these patients has improved in recent years.” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris and the program are actively involved in research initiatives to better understand these conditions. Despite medical therapy being effective in up to 75 percent of NTM cases, she says, some NTM infections are difficult to treat and require innovative therapies. “The goal is to treat the majority of patients based on the newest guidelines, and for those with complex cases to develop personalized treatments based on clinical outcomes, microbiology, and biomarkers.” “Every patient with bronchiectasis and NTM infection is different,” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris says. “The goal is to treat the majority of patients based on the newest guidelines , and for those with complex cases to develop personalized treatments based on clinical outcomes, microbiology, and biomarkers.” Better Identifying Subtypes of Bronchiectasis There are many causes of bronchiectasis , says Dr. Addrizzo-Harris. “It could be congenital, such as cystic fibrosis (CF) or immunoglobulin deficiencies. Or it could be caused by prior infection, chronic aspiration, ciliary abnormalities, alpha-1 antitrypsin disease, rheumatologic disease—the list goes on.” New biomarker research is applying emerging phenotyping and endotyping techniques to identify the patient populations who would most benefit from specific treatments, with the goal of better targeting new treatments directed at infection, inflammation, and other aspects of the disease cycle. Dr. Addrizzo-Harris works closely with Leopoldo N. Segal, MD , director of the Translational Lung Biology Laboratory, in analyzing the lung microbiome to determine patterns that may give clues to better ways of treating patients with NTM infection. “Do we need to treat the bacteria, or is there something we need to treat that is in the white blood cell and part of the inflammatory cascade? That’s the thought right now,” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris says. Improving NTM Treatment It is critical to get frequent sputum samples in patients diagnosed with bronchiectasis to evaluate for harmful organisms, Dr. Addrizzo-Harris notes. “Which starts first—the NTM or the bronchiectasis? CT scan can reveal infection, but if you don’t get sputum, you won’t find these and some of the fungal infections associated with bronchiectasis such as aspergillosis.” Antimicrobial sensitivity testing or erm gene analysis may be necessary, explains Dr. Addrizzo-Harris, as NTM species and subspecies have varying susceptibility to existing antibiotics, including macrolides. “Before, non-CF bronchiectasis and NTM infection were considered rare and had very little support. Now, with new drugs targeted at these areas of pathophysiology that have been identified, we hope to move faster in developing effective treatments.” Several new drugs hold promise for treating NTM infections, with antimicrobials apramycin epetraborole omadacycline currently in trial. NYU Langone researchers participated in a study of inhaled liposomal amikacin for treatment of Mycobacterial avium complex that demonstrated 30 percent increase in sputum conversions and longer durability in approximately 50 percent of patients. Bacteriophages have demonstrated favorable clinical outcomes in a preliminary trial in patients lacking other options. NYU Langone researchers have published a pilot trial using as a viable option for patients requiring lung resection. “Before, non-CF bronchiectasis and NTM infection were considered rare and had very little support,” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris says. “Now, with new drugs targeted at these areas of pathophysiology that have been identified, we hope to move faster in developing effective treatments.” Clinical and Translational Research Dr. Addrizzo-Harris is joined by David L. Kamelhar, MD Ashwin Basavaraj, MD Stephanie Lau, MD , in conducting a prospective evaluation of patients with NTM infection and collecting clinical and survey data to facilitate study of the disease process. Dr. Segal is developing a biorepository of airway samples collected during antimycobacterial treatment. NYU Langone is the largest contributor of patient data to the COPD Foundation’s Bronchiectasis and NTM Research Registry Expanding Our Circle of Excellence Bringing a new level of care to Brooklyn and Long Island. February 1, 2022 • At , which holds a Joint Commission Certification for Stroke Rehabilitation, an early-mobilization program for postoperative patients after orthopedic or spinal surgery promises to enable discharge to home in one or two days. , which launched its Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in 2019, the staff has grown to include five full-time physiatrists offering comprehensive therapies at clinics across Long Island. View Our Locations CME, Symposia & Events NYU Langone Orthopedics Webinar Series September 21, 2022 6:45 PM – 8:30 PM ET NYU Langone Orthopedics is extremely proud to continue our CME orthopedic webinars. These free, live, online courses are led by and feature experts in the field, and will focus on several important facets of orthopedic surgery. In this course focused on the foot and ankle, faculty experts will discuss innovative techniques to treat cartilage injuries, the latest developments in biologics, and complex reconstructive surgery of the foot. NYU Langone was one of the first places in the world to perform in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA), and we will highlight how IONA has revolutionized our practice and patient experience. Big Gut Seminars: Focus on Complex Inflammatory Bowel Disease April 8, 2022 This sixth annual CME- and MOC-accredited course presented online is focused on the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of complex IBD. Register Now Cases and Controversies in Heart Failure 2022 May 6, 2022 Virtual Webinar 7:45 am – 3:45 pm ET This course intended for internists, cardiologists, advanced practice providers, and any clinician who cares for or encounters individuals with advanced cardiovascular disease will focus on complex care plans and recent advancements in heart failure. Recent strides in treatment options and management will be presented through a series of case studies. 2nd Annual Cardiometabolic Risk in Inflammatory Conditions: Emerging Insights and Treatment of Inflammation in Cardiovascular Disease April 29, 2022 8:00 am – 1:00 pm Organized by NYU Langone’s Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease with assistance from the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, this half-day course will survey latest advances in management of patients at elevated risk of cardiovascular and cardiometabolic disease due to underlying systemic inflammation. Topics will include such landmark trials as the CANTOS trial, those related to colchicine, and upcoming clinical trials in cardiology targeting the immune system. SBRT22 – Third Annual NYU Langone Long Island Department of Radiation Oncology SBRT for Prostate Cancer Course April 29 – May 1, 2022 Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) has emerged as an exciting, validated, and now standard treatment option for men with localized prostate cancer. This Comprehensive and Interactive Hands-On Course, offered in person and virtually, will provide an overview of the long-term data, treatment planning techniques and clinical considerations for optimizing the use of SBRT while minimizing side effects. Friday, April 29, 2022, 7:00 AM – Sunday, May 1, 2022, 10:15 AM, Fairmont Scottsdale Princess, AZ: +1 -888-495-2126 (mention NYU Langone SBRT for Prostate Cancer, for discounted rate), Scottsdale, AZ Invasive Cardiology Update for Practicing Health Care Professionals September 9, 2022 7:00 AM – 6:00 PM ET (held in person at NYU Langone Health and live-streamed online) This symposium will offer the latest updates on diagnostic and treatment strategies to assess risk of coronary artery disease, peripheral artery disease, congestive heart failure, valvular heart disease, arrhythmias, and preventive cardiology. Using a didactic learning approach, it will provide education on best practices to improve patient outcomes, expand on current therapy options, and reduce morbidity and mortality related to cardiovascular disease. Big Gut Seminars: Focus on Complex Pancreatic Disease September 23, 2022 7:45 AM – 5:00 PM ET This one-day course is focused on the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of complex pancreatic disease including pancreatitis, high-risk and pre-cancerous conditions, and pancreatic cancer. Featuring a multidisciplinary faculty, the program will cover special topics including early detection biomarkers, minimally invasive therapies for premalignant and malignant disease, personalized approaches to pancreatic cancer treatment, and selection of patients for pancreatectomy and autoislet transplant. Dietary and Lifestyle Strategies for Cardiovascular Risk Reduction October 14, 2022 Held in person and live-streamed online NYU Langone Health, 550 First Avenue, Alumni Hall 7:30 AM – 2:30 PM This half-day course focuses on strategies to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and related comorbidities through lifestyle and dietary approaches. The program will provide evidence for the association between diet and cardiovascular disease, highlighting new clinical and scientific data. Expert presenters will share the latest knowledge in nutrition controversy, the impact of exercise on immune function, and the connection between the human microbiome and cardiovascular disease. Advances in Movement Disorders October 28, 2022 7:30 AM – 4:30 PM ET This comprehensive review will provide an update of the diagnosis and management of a broad range of diseases including Parkinson’s disease, chorea, tremor, ataxia, myoclonus, and dystonia. Attendees will learn about current diagnostic and management options for these conditions. Botulinum toxin injections, deep brain stimulation, and high-intensity focused ultrasound as therapeutic modalities will be discussed along with novel and emerging therapies for the treatment of various movement disorders. Comprehensive Spine Course September 30, 2022 To be held in person and live-streamed online NYU Langone Health, 435 E. 30th St., Schwartz Lecture Hall E 7:30 AM – 3:45 PM This one-day course is a comprehensive review of the spine care continuum: examination, evaluation, and diagnosis; therapeutic interventions; spinal injections; and surgical interventions. Each area will present common pitfalls, the application of practical experience, and a comprehensive understanding of evidence-based care. Faculty experts will present the latest knowledge and review the proper handling of differential diagnosis and selecting appropriate interventions. Brainwaves: Emerging Uses of Neuromodulation for Neurological and Psychiatric Disorders October 21, 2022 8:15 AM – 1:10 PM ET This CME activity, now in its seventh year, provides a broad introduction to the field of neuromodulation, which incorporates deep and transcranial brain stimulation, as well as lesioning technologies such as gamma knife and focused ultrasound. Designed for those new to the field, as well as those with experience, the course covers both practical management issues and an in-depth look at future directions, along with “hot topic” discussions by some of the nation’s leading thought leaders. Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery: A Clinical Update NYU Langone Health, 435 E. 30th Street, Schwartz Lecture Hall E 7:30 AM – 4:50 PM ET This comprehensive, multidisciplinary course is designed to provide practitioners who see women with disorders of the pelvic floor with the most up-to-date information in the field of FPMRS including terminology, diagnostics, therapeutics, and surgical techniques. Urologists, gynecologists, advance practice providers, and trainees will present practical information and evidence-based approaches. Audience participation and panels will be utilized to drive lively and informed discussions. Current Concepts of Ophthalmology 2023 January 6 – 7, 2023 NYU Langone Health, 550 First Avenue, Alumni Hall New York January 6, 2023, 8:00 AM ET – January 7, 2023, 12:00 PM ET This course, now in its 13th year, highlights current concepts in cataract surgery, retinal diseases, glaucoma, diabetes-related eye disease, neuro-ophthalmology, and oculoplastics. The live format features opinion leaders in the various specialties presenting new and interesting topics with question-and-answer sessions. Resident eye physicians also present unusual cases to expert panels for vibrant discussions. Fifth International NYU Langone Hip Dysplasia Symposium September 16, 2022 7:45 AM – 3:30 PM ET The fifth iteration of this symposium will focus on gaps in the knowledge of hip dysplasia. The first section will focus on early identification and optimizing non-operative approaches. The second, aimed at the orthopedic surgeon, will focus on cutting-edge surgical treatments. Participants will learn best practices for identifying and treating hip dysplasia, recognizing complications and pitfalls in treatment, and developing treatment strategies. Researchers from around the world will discuss their work. Management of Patients with Voice, Swallowing and Airway Disorders January 21, 2023 Virtual Webinar | 7:45 AM – 4:00 PM ET Patients with voice and swallow-related complaints require a vast range of treatment modalities. This one-day course will focus on the didactic knowledge and practical experience needed to improve the practitioner’s knowledge base and diagnostic therapeutic accuracy. The program is a comprehensive review of the NYU Voice Center’s team approach for patients with voice, swallowing, and airway disorders, and will focus on common patient complaints and understanding of evidence-based care. Adult and Pediatric Endoscopic Ear Surgery and Cochlear Implantation November 4 – 5, 2022 Bellevue Hospital, 462 First Avenue | Room 5E11 7:30 AM – 5:00 PM ET This comprehensive two-day course is designed to provide a review of the latest techniques in ear surgery. Participants will update and expand their understanding of temporal bone anatomy and innovative surgical techniques for adult and pediatric endoscopic ear surgery, advanced middle ear and mastoid surgery, and cochlear implantation including challenging anatomic cases and revision surgery. Presenters include NYU Langone otolaryngology and neurosurgery faculty and guest experts. 11th Annual Articular Cartilage Repair Course: State of the Art Management of Complex Cartilage and Meniscal Lesions November 5, 2022 NYU Langone Health, 550 First Avenue | Alumni Hall 6:30 AM – 1:00 PM ET This program will address the biologic approach to the treatment of cartilage injuries, using marrow stimulation techniques, osteochondral grafting, and cell-based repair methods to fill symptomatic defects.Risks and benefits will be discussed along with alternatives – operative and non-operative management, as well as specific improvements, expectations, and patient demographics. Additionally, patient safety topics will be presented as they apply to the decision-making process. Shoulder Arthroplasty Course May 19 – 20, 2023 InterContinental New York Barclay 6:30 AM – 3:00 PM This inaugural in-person educational event will bring together shoulder arthroplasty experts from around the world. The program will present the full spectrum of topics from preoperative evaluation to treatment of complications including primary and complex revision cases and all topics in between. The course content will provide a fast-paced program utilizing multiple formats — lectures, panel discussions, roundtable discussions, re-live surgery, and debates. Psychedelic Medicine October 29, 2022 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM ET Psychedelic-assisted therapies have shown promise in the treatment of multiple psychiatric disorders, with both MDMA and psilocybin receiving “breakthrough therapy” designation from the FDA. This course will provide an overview of contemporary psychedelic research, including naturalistic studies, clinical trials of psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy, and cutting-edge basic science research. The program will be of interest to both clinicians and researchers, highlighting the need for collaboration across disciplines. Post-Acute Covid Syndrome: Progress in Science and Patient Care November 15, 2022 Offered in person and live-streamed online 7:30 AM – 4:15 PM ET This one-day course is designed to provide faculty and physicians-in-training an overview and update on the diagnosis and management of post-COVID patients. It will address a broad spectrum of clinician needs in the understanding of the pathophysiology of the disease, currently available diagnostic techniques, and the current standard of evaluation and treatment. NYU Langone faculty experts will highlight the best screening practices in COVID patients with various medical complaints. Irwin D. Mandel Advances in Cardiovascular Risk Reduction: Improving Treatment for Patients with Diabetes December 1, 2022 This one-day course will provide a comprehensive approach to the management of patients with dyslipidemias, including an in-depth review of novel pharmacological agents and a practical overview of their use in clinical care. Screening for genetic mutations in lipids and the current state of cardiovascular genetics will be covered, as well as endothelial cell gene expression as a marker for cardiovascular disease risk. An update on diagnostic tools for cardiovascular risk assessment is included. Update on Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Through the Lifespan December 3, 2022 8:15 AM – 4:05 PM ET This course will focus on the latest issues in Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) throughout the lifespan – in children, adolescents, and adults. Topics to be covered include sluggish cognitive tempo; treatment of ADHD with a focus on new therapies; ADHD and substance use disorders; co-morbid conditions in ADHD; diagnosis of ADHD in adulthood; and exposure to systemic viruses and ADHD symptoms. The course will be a full-day, virtual activity with a breakout “Ask the Expert” session. Eighth Annual NYU Langone Advanced Seminar in Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis December 9, 2022 The seminar is an informative educational conference for physicians across disciplines with a special interest in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. The program will review and address those areas such as COVID-19 where recent knowledge is available, focusing particularly on translation into practice. It will also explore the areas that are likely to prove important to the near-future management of patients. Participants will have the opportunity to raise questions and participate in dialogue with experts. Advances in Critical Care and Resuscitation December 15, 2022 7:45 AM – 4:20 PM ET This one-day symposium is designed to provide critical care and emergency medicine providers an update on the latest in medical management. The course will be organized around organ-specific themes and include a discussion of survivorship and psychological outcomes and ethical dilemmas in the ICU setting. Experts from NYU and around the world will delve into the physiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management of critical care patients. NYU Langone Neurosurgery Update: A One-Day Symposium December 2, 2022 7:00 AM – 5:00 PM The spectrum of neurosurgery includes cranial, spinal, and peripheral nerve disorders related to vascular disease, brain tumors, pain, and movement, as well as behavioral disorders, epilepsy, and trauma. This one-day program will address significant clinical problems for which there may be clinical equipoise on available options, or for which current science does not provide solutions based on high-level medical evidence. Surgical, Pharmacological, and Technological Advances in Urology December 8 – 10, 2022 7:45 AM ET The diagnosis and management of many urologic diseases have been greatly influenced by recent pharmacological, surgical, and technological advances. This update, led by an internationally acclaimed faculty, will provide presentations on male sexual dysfunction, endourology, voiding dysfunction, prostate cancer, reconstructive urology, and chronic pelvic pain. In this live format, case presentations and Q&As will enhance the didactic lectures. March 2023 Big Gut Seminars: Focus on Complex Esophageal Disease and Inflammatory Bowel Disease March 1 – 31, 2023 These CME- and MOC-accredited courses are focused on emerging concepts and controversies in the pathogenesis, diagnosis, and evidence-based treatment of individuals with benign or pre-malignant esophageal disease (March 24) and complex IBD (March 31). Featuring a multidisciplinary faculty of national leaders and an interactive format, each full-day program discusses novel treatment options, emerging issues in clinical care, and challenging complex patient cases. Bladder Cancer Symposium: Update on Medical and Surgical Management for the Urologist March 10, 2023 550 First Avenue, Alumni Hall 12:00 PM – 6:00 PM ET This course will focus on the diagnosis and management of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC); novel therapies for high-risk NMIBC; immunologic approaches; and technical advances in surgical treatment, bladder preservation, and reconstructive surgery. Case presentations with faculty participation will enhance the practical value of the course, and registrants will have the opportunity to participate in question-and-answer sessions. Pediatric Rheumatology: 12th Annual Update for Clinicians March 15, 2023 12:30 PM – 5:30 PM ET With fewer than 250 pediatric rheumatologists in the United States and several states lacking even a single pediatric rheumatologist, this course fills a critical need for general pediatricians and adult rheumatologists to have sufficient training to diagnose and potentially manage children with rheumatic disease. Promoting increased awareness is essential for early treatment of rheumatic diseases in order to minimize damage and improve patient outcomes. Conferences 6th World Bronchiectasis & NTM Conference July 18 – 20, 2023 New York, NY | Hosted by NYU Langone Health World Bronchiectasis & NTM Conference 2023 will explore recent advances in the diagnosis, treatment and management of bronchiectasis and non-tuberculous mycobacterial infections. CME-accredited in-person and livestreaming course includes expert lectures, original research presentations, panel discussions, and more. Register Here Cardiometabolic Risk in Inflammatory Conditions: Emerging Insights and Treatment April 28, 2023 NYU Langone Health, 550 First Ave, Alumni Hall 7:45 AM – 2:50 PM ET This one-day course is designed to provide an informative and practical guide to clinical management across a spectrum of cardiovascular conditions in those with systemic inflammation and such disease states as recurrent pericarditis, dyslipidemia, and atherosclerosis. Updates on novel imaging techniques, microvascular testing, and MRI to evaluate the myo and pericardium will be presented, as well as emerging data and practical lessons from cardio-rheumatology clinics. Harmonizing Best Practices in Pediatric Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Spinal cord injury (SCI) in children and adolescents is a complex and life-changing condition, and yet, there is no agreed-upon international model of care to inform best practices and improve rehabilitation services. Recognizing this problem, a team of specialists from seven countries came together to study and compare the existing systems of care , with the goal of fostering collaboration and harmonizing best practices in the field. Tamara Bushnik, PhD , experts from NYU Langone Health’s , took part in the initiative. The project was the first international multicenter study to describe the organization of services and systems of care for specialized pediatric SCI rehabilitation “Collaboration across borders is paramount to capture both the similarities and disparities in pediatric SCI rehabilitation.” “Collaboration across borders is paramount to capture both the similarities and disparities in pediatric SCI rehabilitation,” says Dr. Sukhov, a clinical associate professor of rehabilitation medicine and a pediatric physiatrist at Paucity of Research According to Dr. Sukhov, the body of literature on pediatric SCI rehabilitation is scarce, noting that access to services, the rights of children, and the quality of healthcare can vary widely in and between countries. “Specialized pediatric rehabilitation services require high-level medical expertise and resources,” Dr. Sukhov explains. “The multidisciplinary service includes ongoing evaluations, establishment of treatment goals and patient-focused guidance provided by a highly qualified team ideally led by a pediatric physiatrist.” Moreover, he emphasizes that non-clinical factors, such as access to care, programmatic support, community mission-based support, and availability of follow-up services have a considerable impact on outcomes, but are not well described. “Pediatric SCI requires a lifelong commitment to rehabilitation, supported by both healthcare and philanthropic organizations, to ensure that the child affected by SCI will be able to transition to adulthood and rejoin society,” Dr. Sukhov says. First-of-Its-Kind Study The researchers pooled data from 10 rehabilitation units in seven countries (China, Israel, Norway, Palestine, Russia, Sweden, and the United States), finding similarities in the organization and administration of services, but also notable differences. With respect to similarities, most units were publicly funded, and only 3 of 10 had a dedicated pediatric SCI unit. While there were large variations in catchment area, pediatric population, and referrals, the majority had similar challenges in discharge policy, such as home modifications and funding of equipment. While all units offered some type of long-term follow-up activities post-discharge, the frequency and content of the follow-up varied across units—some units did not meet in person for follow-up stays, but instead offered information booklets, telephone calls, or video consultations. “Extension of these studies may lead to improvements in healthcare delivery for this underserved population.” Overall, seven units offered lifelong follow-up. Four units had mobile follow-up teams, and after the age of 18 years, most adolescents were transitioned to an adult unit for follow-up. Concerning disparities, there was a notable variation in staffing between units, and some teams did not prioritize interdisciplinary and multiprofessional collaboration. “The primary concern for SCI care is the welfare of the child despite economic, sociodemographic, and cultural differences between countries and regions,” Dr. Sukhov explains. “We highlight the imperative humanitarian need to expand understanding of SCI models of care for children, ultimately resulting in better clinical and functional outcomes.” Call to Action Based on these findings, the investigators identified a need for evidence-based, international guidelines for children with SCI rehabilitation needs. To bring this to fruition, next steps will be to strengthen existing relationships and form new collaborations with experts both nationally and internationally, Dr. Sukhov says. “Extension of these studies can potentially bridge the gaps in our collective knowledge on pediatric SCI rehabilitation,” Dr. Sukhov says, “and may lead to improvements in healthcare delivery for this underserved population.” Minimizing the Miss Rate: How AI Is Reshaping Colonoscopy Aasma Shaukat, MD, MPH To improve the quality and efficacy of colonoscopy, estimated to miss upwards of 30 percent of polyps , endoscopists at NYU Langone Health are working with computer-aided polyp detection (CADe) systems that act as a second set of eyes. National, multicenter clinical trials evaluating artificial intelligence (AI) in colonoscopy have solidified the technology’s role as a true aid, with NYU Langone researchers , involved in two such studies. “Our findings add to the growing amount of literature that shows using computer-aided technology during an endoscopy procedure can improve the quality of exams performed and improve outcomes for our patients,” says Dr. Shaukat, the Robert M. and Mary H. Glickman Professor of Medicine. “Our findings add to the growing amount of literature that shows using computer-aided technology during an endoscopy procedure can improve the quality of exams performed and improve outcomes for our patients.” “As the role of artificial intelligence in endoscopy grows, we are making sure that it is adding value to patient care,” says Dr. Gross, clinical chief of the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology AI as a Proven Aid Recently reported in , Dr. Shaukat led a large randomized controlled trial that evaluated a CADe device, SKOUT, in colonoscopy procedures. Involving nearly 1,500 participants, the study found the device increased the adenomas per colonoscopy (APC) rate by 27 percent, from 0.83 to 1.05, while causing no increase in resection of non-neoplastic lesions. Notably, the device supported a 20 percent increase in the detection of small (1 to 4 millimeter) lesions and a 29 percent increase in the detection of larger (5 to 9 millimeter) lesions, challenging a criticism that AI systems only increase the detection of diminutive polyps. “Use of the CADe system enabled an increase in the detection of large lesions particularly in the proximal colon, which is of great interest as studies suggest traditional colonoscopy is not as effective at preventing proximal cancers,” Dr. Shaukat says. Building on Early Success The trial builds on one of the first randomized controlled trials of CADe for screening and surveillance colonoscopy in the United States. Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology with Dr. Gross as a co-author, that study found an increase in APC and a decrease in the miss rate of adenomas, polyps, and sessile serrated lesions with the use of the CADe device EndoScreener. “When you find large adenomas and sessile serrated lesions, those are always value-add. But we’re coming to a period where the question can be raised, ‘What’s the long-term benefit when you find a very small adenoma? How does it impact the patient’s life?’” Dr. Gross says. “We’ll probably never know that information because when we see a polyp, we remove it.” “We’re coming to a period where the question can be raised, ‘What’s the long-term benefit when you find a very small adenoma? How does it impact the patient’s life?’” Seth A. Gross, MD, MPH Both EndoScreener SKOUT have received 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for colorectal cancer screening and surveillance. Rethinking Surveillance Given New Demands An increase in polyp detection rates with the use of AI also means an increase in the number of patients requiring surveillance. Yet, this is another area in which AI may provide solutions, says Dr. Gross, by better risk-stratifying patients based on what is found during colonoscopy. Recent updates to colorectal cancer surveillance guidelines from the U.S. Multi-Society Task Force, of which Dr. Gross is a member, are also serving to address this concern. “For very small precancerous polyps, what used to be a five-year interval is now a seven-year interval, what used to be a guaranteed three-year interval is a three- to five-year interval,” he says. “These adjustments are made based on studies and outcomes data. You don’t want to bring someone back for a very diminutive, precancerous polyp when they could probably wait a little bit longer. Hopefully that will balance out what the technology does in terms of identifying more patients to follow.” Dr. Gross has served as a consultant for Olympus. Dr. Shaukat reports research funding to NYU Langone Health for the current manuscript from Iterative Scopes and consulting fees from Freenome Inc and Medtronic. Seth A. Gross, MD, is clinical chief of the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology and a professor of medicine. His research focuses on new technologies for screening, diagnosing, and treating cancerous and precancerous gastrointestinal conditions. Aasma Shaukat, MD, MPH, is the Robert M. and Mary H. Glickman Professor of Medicine and Gastroenterology, a professor of population health, and director of outcomes research in the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology. Her research focuses on colorectal cancer screening and prevention. A New Model for Studying Corneal Diseases Disorders of the cornea are a leading cause of blindness worldwide . While surgical transplant of donor cornea is an effective treatment option, it remains out of reach for most patients. This large unmet need has helped to propel interest in developing cell-based regenerative therapies for blinding corneal diseases, says Shukti Chakravarti, PhD , a professor of ophthalmology and pathology at NYU Langone Health. “A crucial step to developing such therapies is improving our understanding of corneal tissue development, as well as the interactions between corneal cell types,” Dr. Chakravarti explains. Dr. Chakravarti and her research team are exploring the development of 3D organoids that could offer researchers a new investigative platform to better model the cellular complexity and functionality of the human cornea. They recently published preliminary results of their work in PNAS Nexus “Organoid technology has revolutionized the study of developmental stages and disease pathogenesis. We believe this new model provides a valuable 3D cell culture system for studying corneal disease mechanisms.” “Organoid technology has revolutionized the study of developmental stages and disease pathogenesis,” says Dr. Chakravarti. “We believe this new model provides a valuable 3D cell culture system for studying corneal disease mechanisms.” Addressing Current Shortcomings While some studies have investigated the single-cell transcriptomic composition of the human cornea, its organoids have not been examined extensively. Conventional 2D cell culture models often lack key information about tissue development and the consequences of interactions between cell types. The researchers began their approach with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of the central human cornea to determine its epithelial, stromal, and endothelial cellular landscape. They also performed scRNA-seq on human cornea organoids and compared the organoid single-cell transcriptome with that of the adult human cornea. Modeling Corneal Diseases In their report, Dr. Chakravarti and her team showcased the repertoire of cornea-like cells present in the organoid. As a whole, the organoid displayed features of a developing or a healing cornea. “Our sequencing data show the presence of all three cell types in the organoids and, overall, their closer resemblance to developing rather than adult corneas,” says Dr. Chakravarti. While the three major corneal cell types—epithelial, stromal keratocyte, and endothelial—are often investigated in single monolayer cultures, the 3D organoid system has already confirmed that interactions between all the three major layers are imperative for proper functioning of the cornea, she adds. Based on these initial findings, the organoids offer a promising experimental system to model human diseases in tissue culture. While the 3D model appears to best conventional 2D cell culture models, further refinement and validation is still needed. “Additional standardizations and sequencing of larger batches are needed for consistency. In the meantime, the cornea organoids may be used in functional studies of genes during early corneal development,” says Dr. Chakravarti. Ophthalmology, Pathology Shukti Chakravarti, PhD, is a professor and Interim Vice Chair for Research in the Department of Ophthalmology and a professor in the Department of Pathology. Her research focuses on understanding how the extracellular matrix regulates cellular functions and tissue homeostasis and identifying the underlying genetic causes in the corneal disease keratoconus. Ranibizumab Port Delivery System: Is There a Cost Benefit? Comparison study presents a model for investigating costs of intravitreal anti-VEGF injections vs. ranibizumab PDS for nAMD. Presenters at World Cornea Congress VIII and AAO 2022 NYU Langone Health experts joined international ophthalmology colleagues in Chicago, September 28-October 3. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Evolve Understanding of Keratoconus Early diagnosis, disease stabilization, risk factor awareness, and genetic studies offer hope for patients. Navigating Evolving Options for Glaucoma Surgery A researcher of new, less-invasive technologies explains that all surgical options still play valuable roles. Better Predicting Progression of Retinopathy of Prematurity An expert in ROP discusses opportunities to fix the gaps in detection and diagnosis. Mobile App Takes Vision-Based Testing Onsite Shedding Light on How Norovirus Triggers Crohn’s Disease Ken H. Cadwell, PhD Crohn’s disease is influenced by a complex mixture of genetic and environmental causes. Past studies have shown that a variant of the ATG16L1 gene is associated with increased risk of the disease. In mouse models, for example, viruses can trigger symptoms in animals bred with that mutation. Until recently, however, the process by which those pathogens activate the illness has remained unknown. A pioneering study led by NYU Langone Health researchers, , has revealed a mechanism for the first time and points toward a new target for developing improved treatments. “Our study suggests that a subgroup of intestinal T cells secrete a protein that protects Paneth cells from the effects of this mutation,” explains study co-senior author , the Recanati Family Professor of Microbiology. “When a virus infects patients with the risk allele, it can block production of the protein, tipping the balance toward a full-blown inflammatory disease.” “Our study suggests that a subgroup of intestinal T cells secrete a protein that protects Paneth cells from the effects of this mutation. When a virus infects patients with the risk allele, it can block production of the protein, tipping the balance toward a full-blown inflammatory disease.” , a professor of biochemistry and molecular pharmacology and a member of NYU Langone’s , also served as co-senior author of the new study. Identifying a Protective Protein Previous investigations of have suggested a link between Paneth cells—intestinal epithelial cells crucial to regulating gut microbial communities—and the inflammation characteristic of Crohn’s disease. Mice with the mutant gene, as well as humans with Crohn’s disease who have two copies of the risk allele, often display abnormalities in Paneth cells. In experiments with mutant mice raised in a sterile environment, these abnormalities emerged only after the animals were infected with murine norovirus (MNV). In their recent study, NYU Langone researchers set out to learn how this damage took place. They studied groups of mice with and without the mutation. In both groups, intestinal T cells known as γδ intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) secreted apoptosis inhibitor 5 (API5), a protein that signals the immune system to stop attacking once a microbe has been subdued. When the mutant mice were infected with MNV, however, their γδ IELs lost the ability to secrete API5, leaving Paneth cells vulnerable to injury or destruction by a dysregulated immune response. To see whether increasing API5 levels could have a protective effect, the team injected some of the mutant mice with the human version of the protein. All the treated animals survived, while half of the untreated group died. In human gut tissue, the researchers found, patients with Crohn’s disease had between 5- and 10-fold fewer API5-producing T cells than those without the disease. When the team constructed intestinal organoids from people with the risk allele, these “mini-guts” showed impaired growth and susceptibility to damage when exposed to tumor necrosis factor (TNF), a proinflammatory cytokine. Treatment with API5 improved organoid viability and Paneth cell numbers, and enhanced their resistance to TNF-induced cell death. A Potential Therapeutic Target Other factors besides norovirus may play a similar role in “unmasking” the deleterious effect of the variant. “We found that Salmonella infection also suppresses API5 secretion, and previous research has shown an association between smoking and Paneth cell defects in mice and humans with mutations. Rather than a specific microorganism or toxic trigger, it’s possible that multiple environmental stressors that disrupt IEL function can lead to Paneth cell dysfunction and disease in vulnerable individuals,” says Dr. Cadwell. Beyond shedding light on the etiology of Crohn’s disease, the research raises the possibility of a novel approach to treatment. “If Paneth cell abnormalities contribute to sustaining inflammation, combining anti-inflammatory agents with strategies that restore the protective function of IELs, such as API5 administration, could be particularly effective for reversing the course of the disease.” Yu Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, MD, PhD “Current therapies, which rely on immune suppression, put patients at high risk for infection and may become less effective over time,” says Yu Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, MD, PhD, a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Microbiology and the study’s lead author. “If Paneth cell abnormalities contribute to sustaining inflammation, combining anti-inflammatory agents with strategies that restore the protective function of IELs, such as API5 administration, could be particularly effective for reversing the course of the disease.” NYU Langone has patents pending (10,722,600, 62/935,035, and 63/157,225) for therapies developed from this treatment approach, from which Dr. Cadwell, Dr. Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, and NYU Langone may benefit financially. The terms and conditions of these relationships are being managed in accordance with the policies of NYU Langone. Immunology, Microbiology Ken H. Cadwell, PhD, is the Recanati Family Professor of Microbiology and a professor of medicine. His research centers on understanding how infectious agents and the microbiome regulate susceptibility to inflammatory disease. Gastroenterology, Microbiology Yu Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, MD, PhD, is a gastroenterologist and endoscopist and a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Microbiology. His research focuses on the pathogenesis of irritable bowel diseases through a translational approach using preclinical models and clinical samples. Chemoprevention: Best Practice Advice for Colorectal Neoplasia Recommendations state that only two medications should be considered, as others lack efficacy. Maximizing the Impact of IBD Treatment An array of new tools and therapies bring precision medicine to IBD clinical care. Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Expanding the Clinical Toolkit A renowned liver expert updates on the latest diagnostic and treatment options. AI Set to Bring Expansive Benefits to Endoscopists , clinical chief of the , was involved in one of the first randomized controlled trials of computer-aided detection (CADe) for screening and surveillance colonoscopy in the United States and currently serves on the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy’s (ASGE) Artificial Intelligence in GI task force , which aims to help guide the evolution and implementation of AI technology in the field. Here, Dr. Gross shares with his perspective on the expansive potential of artificial intelligence (AI) in endoscopy, with improved polyp detection through CADe marking the first of many enhancements ahead. Extending the Advantages of CADe Across medicine, there are ever-expanding opportunities for AI to improve care. Now that CADe systems have refined polyp detection, what’s next for AI in colonoscopy and in endoscopy as a whole? Dr. Gross: AI is certainly going to continue to grow. If you look at the colonoscopy procedure itself, identifying polyps and precancerous polyps is just one element. AI can also help in characterization of the polyp, for example, distinguishing whether it’s precancerous or benign. And it will be able to potentially tell us if the bowel cleanse is adequate. Expanding to areas outside of colon polyps to other diseases that we commonly see in gastroenterology, AI will potentially help to detect Barrett’s esophagus or gastric cancer or pick up precancerous cells in someone with chronic inflammatory bowel disease. “For all the potential of AI, it doesn’t take away how important the physician’s role is. The physician must be engaged, and the physician must use all the things they’ve learned over their training and apply the art of medicine to the patient in the clinical situation.” On top of that, AI provides the potential for voice recognition during procedures, which could enable notes to be generated while we’re working and make the endoscopy unit more efficient. Guiding Care in Gastrointestinal Bleeding AI is also playing an important role in analyzing large datasets. Are there any exciting advancements along this front related to endoscopy? There was a study looking at a population we see a lot as gastroenterologists, which is patients with gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, and being able to risk stratify those patients based on the clinical information in their medical records to determine who should get admitted, who could go home, and who should have an endoscopy. That’s a great example of using AI to help the physician analyze large pieces of data to better guide clinical care. Shaping Priorities for AI Research As a member of ASGE’s Artificial Intelligence in GI task force, you’re working to set priorities for AI applications in endoscopy. What are some key initiatives the group is working on? We’re trying to be advocates for patients and physicians and help ensure that AI algorithms and systems that come onto the market are up to our quality standards. One of our goals is to develop metrics so that new companies that have an AI platform they want to get integrated into daily clinical care know the benchmarks they need to reach. We also do a lot around physician education. AI and the Physician As you’ve adopted AI into your practice, do you feel it’s changed your approach or role in caring for patients? For all the potential of AI, it doesn’t take away how important the physician’s role is. The physician must be engaged, and the physician must use all the things they’ve learned over their training and apply the art of medicine to the patient in the clinical situation. AI only has the potential to enhance what we’re already doing in medicine today. Decoding SUDEP Risk with Comprehensive Registry Analyses Research led by specialists at NYU Langone Health’s is helping to pinpoint biomarkers—and untangle potential root causes—of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP), a rare but well-recognized cause of death in people with uncontrolled seizures. Each year, SUDEP is estimated to occur in 1 out of every 1,000 people with epilepsy . It affects all age groups and until recently little was understood about how the condition of patients with epilepsy or the characteristics of seizures might lead to death. “It wasn’t enough to tell patients and families that it was uncommon—we wanted to uncover what could be done to prevent it.” “There was a recognition by physicians and the patient community that we needed to better understand why some patients can have a single tonic–clonic seizure and die from it,” says , chief of the NYU Langone Epilepsy Service. “It wasn’t enough to tell patients and families that it was uncommon—we wanted to uncover what could be done to prevent it.” Uncovering a Mechanism Dr. Devinsky was a principal investigator involved in the Center Without Walls—a scientific collaborative funded by the National Institutes of Health and launched in 2014 to enhance the understanding of SUDEP. The virtual center yielded several research initiatives characterizing the biomarkers and neuropathology involved in SUDEP. Separately, Dr. Devinsky and his team created the North American SUDEP Registry —the most comprehensive SUDEP registry to date—which has gathered and centralized information on the epidemiology of SUDEP in more than 400 patients. The foundational studies powered by both the collaborative and the registry have led investigators to understand a likely mechanism involved in SUDEP: central respiratory arrest and cardiac arrhythmia following tonic–clonic seizures. “These studies have emphasized that SUDEP is not a phenomenon limited to patients with severe seizures. SUDEP happens to patients with milder disease as well.” “Importantly, these studies have emphasized that SUDEP is not a phenomenon limited to patients with severe seizures,” notes Dr. Devinsky. “We are beginning to build an understanding of all the factors that contribute to a given patient’s risk—but SUDEP happens to patients with milder disease as well.” Specific SUDEP Biomarkers In a third research initiative, Dr. Devinsky is collaborating with , associate chief of the NYU Langone Epilepsy Service, to further investigate the clinical, genetic, and physiological mechanisms of SUDEP by combining biospecimens and lifestyle information from patients living with epilepsy—as well as those who have died from SUDEP and their family members. For example, the researchers are analyzing how measures such as heart rate variability may associate with SUDEP, pinpointing new biomarkers, including reduced short-term low-frequency power Along with MRI analyses of structural changes in the brain and electroencephalograph (EEG) data identifying the duration of typical postseizure changes in brain activity, these data can be used by physicians and researchers to stratify patient risk of SUDEP and point to potential areas for intervention. “We want to understand which patients are at highest risk so we can target counseling and find mechanistic pathways for preventive treatment.” “We want to understand which patients are at highest risk so we can target patient counseling, identify surrogate end points for interventional studies, and find mechanistic pathways for preventive treatment,” says Dr. Friedman. Stratifying Risk, Targeting Intervention With the help of artificial intelligence (AI), the researchers are also using biomarker data from the studies to build a machine learning tool that predicts the individual risk of SUDEP, with the goal of assisting clinicians in identifying high-risk patients. “The idea is that you could input a patient’s symptoms, medical history, and other information, and learn that their risk per year is, say, 1 in 2,800. If they are consistent with their medication routine, their risk might decline to 1 in 5,100 per year, for example,” says Dr. Devinsky. For now, preventive strategies for SUDEP are in the form of lifestyle modifications and wearable technologies. Alcohol overuse, obesity, missed medications, and sleeping alone are known risk factors that could potentially be modified through patient education. Technologies such as wearable watches with seizure-related alerts have been developed specifically to lower SUDEP risk. “The majority of SUDEP cases occur when the patient is alone,” adds Dr. Friedman. “If a higher-risk patient lives alone, a neighbor or friend could get alerts in the event of a seizure and know to check on the patient—potentially saving their life.” Epilepsy, Pediatric Epilepsy Orrin Devinsky, MD, is a professor of neurology, neurosurgery, and psychiatry; and chief of service for the NYU Langone Epilepsy Service. His research focuses on the optimal treatment of epilepsy and the causes of sudden unexplained deaths in children. Daniel Friedman, MD, is a professor of neurology. He is also director of the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center and serves as associate chief and co-director of special procedures for the NYU Langone Epilespy Service. Building the Nation’s First tDCS Telehealth Program Over the past two decades, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has emerged as a promising therapy for a wide range of neurologic neuropsychiatric disorders. Yet while specific tDCS products have been approved for such applications in the European Union and elsewhere, the method remains investigational in the United States. Because tDCS can be effective in treating symptoms that resist conventional therapies, while posing little risk of serious adverse effects, many patients are eager to try it. One obstacle to widespread adoption, however, is the need to undergo daily sessions at a qualified facility. NYU Langone Health offers a novel alternative: the nation’s first remotely administered , led by Here, Dr. Charvet discusses tDCS’s expanding use cases and the program’s unique approach. A Winning Combination Dr. Charvet, what led you to establish NYU Langone’s home-based tDCS Program? Dr. Charvet: I was an early adopter of telerehabilitation approaches—using technology to provide therapies to people at home to help reduce their symptom burden and improve their quality of life. After leading a large home-based trial demonstrating the benefits of an online “brain training” program to treat cognitive impairment in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), I was convinced of how much demand there is for telehealth solutions. At the same time, exciting advances were occurring in the use of noninvasive brain stimulation technologies, including the safe and portable method of tDCS. One use of tDCS is to direct the current to the region of the brain that is engaged in a training activity. A growing body of evidence shows that this method, known as “functional targeting,” can boost and harness the outcomes of other therapies. Imaging studies suggest it works by increasing cerebral blood flow in key areas and strengthening neuroplasticity. That led me to investigate whether we could add tDCS to the home-based cognitive training program that we had studied. My colleagues and I partnered with a tDCS device manufacturer, incorporating input from our patient participants, to develop a customized tDCS setup for home-based use. This includes specialized headgear and sponge electrodes, and fail-safe devices programmed to deliver a single dose of tDCS only after the patient has received clearance. We combined this technology with video visits and called the protocol “remotely supervised” tDCS (RS-tDCS) “We’ve provided RS-tDCS to more than 200 patients from across the country with a wide range of chronic, progressive, and treatment-resistant conditions.” We then began a series of large trials studying the use of RS-tDCS for improving functional outcomes in cognitive motor exercise programs. We first tested the technology in people living with MS, and have since expanded its use to people living with many different types of neurologic and psychiatric conditions. Many patients sought to continue their tDCS treatment after participating in these studies. Patients with other disorders, some of them from outside New York State, began asking us if they could try a similar approach. And in 2019, we launched a program designed to do just that. A Growing Roster of Use Cases Besides MS, what disorders does the program treat? We’ve provided RS-tDCS to more than 200 patients from across the country with a wide range of chronic, progressive, and treatment-resistant conditions—including recovery and preservation of function in dementias post-stroke sequelae cerebellar ataxia , as well as adjunctive support for patients in minimally conscious states, and symptom management in Since early in the pandemic, we’ve also been treating patients with long COVID, which has shown encouraging results. That effort earned NYU Langone a lead role in the NIH’s ongoing RECOVER NEURO trial. And we’re about to publish a study showing improved language functioning in patients with primary progressive aphasia. The Advantages of Home-Based Care How does NYU Langone administer tDCS remotely? We start with an intake call via telehealth to evaluate the patient’s needs. Then we have a group meeting, which includes everyone from medical staff to biomedical engineers, to design a customized treatment plan. We recommend an initial cycle of at least 20 half-hour sessions for patients and their clinicians to assess whether the therapy is having the desired effect. “We’ve seen this therapy have profound impacts on patients with terrible conditions who have few other effective options for improving their symptoms.” Treatment is delivered through Epic video visits, ensuring data security and integration with electronic health records. After receiving tDCS headsets targeting brain regions involved in their condition, patients work one-on-one with clinicians who are certified through our rigorous training process, which we also offer to labs nationwide that are studying this kind of approach. We always pair tDCS with another therapeutic activity—anything from cognitive, physical, or language exercises for recovery from a neurologic condition to mindfulness meditation for the treatment of depression. The available evidence robustly supports tDCS as a supplement to such activities, rather than as a substitute for them. Wouldn’t it be simpler to just have patients come into a treatment center? It might be simpler for the clinicians, but home-based care offers two big advantages to patients. First, it’s accessible to people who aren’t willing or able to commute to a clinic five days a week. Second, remote administration allows us to provide tDCS to folks who don’t live near a facility that offers it. We’ve seen this therapy have profound impacts on patients with terrible conditions who have few other effective options for improving their symptoms. These people are in such need of hope and help. We want to make sure they can get it. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Improve Lung Transplant Outcomes Abraham R. Khan, MD, and Tanuja Damani, MD , experts provide highly specialized care for patients with complex conditions of the esophagus and persistent, challenging symptoms that require advanced diagnosis and treatment. The center is co-led by , who serves as surgical director, and , the medical director. Luis F. Angel, MD , medical director of lung transplantation, and Darya Rudym, MD , an assistant professor of medicine, the team has pioneered a multidisciplinary approach to perform timely pre-transplant diagnostic testing for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and, if needed, endoscopic or surgical intervention to resolve the reflux. They also perform post-transplant diagnostic testing and treatment as needed. Here, Dr. Damani and Dr. Khan discuss their unique approach to testing and provide a real case example to illustrate the process. Pulmonary Manifestations of Reflux What is the role of chronic pathologic GERD in lung transplant? Dr. Khan: Chronic gastroesophageal reflux and the potentially associated microaspiration can exacerbate many chronic pulmonary conditions including asthma, interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, and bronchiectasis. Current guidelines suggest lifestyle modifications and acid-suppressive therapy as first-line treatment options, but these interventions are often insufficient for complex patients, such as those undergoing lung transplant. Additionally, the use of acid-suppressive therapy alters the pH of gastric contents without fully addressing the consequences of aspiration into the airway, which can be concerning for some transplant recipients, as we want to prevent reflux-driven damage to the lung allograft and reduce the risk of rejection post-transplant. “In lung transplant recipients, anti-reflux surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic allograft dysfunction, and thus it is important that low-risk minimally invasive surgery be considered for these patients.” Dr. Damani: Adding to what Dr. Khan said, severe reflux and regurgitation that cannot be medically managed often jeopardize the longevity of the new lungs due to reflux-induced microaspiration and resulting inflammation. In lung transplant recipients, anti-reflux surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic allograft dysfunction, and thus it is important that low-risk minimally invasive surgery be considered for these patients. Streamlined Testing and Treatment What is unique about your approach to pre- and post-transplant diagnostic testing for reflux? Our team is actively working to identify all patients with severe GERD in the pre-transplant setting. One unique aspect of our approach is that we incorporate state-of-the-art diagnostic tools into the workup. These awake diagnostic tests can give insights into why the patient has gastroesophageal reflux, and then allow us to understand if that reflux is indeed at risk of aspirating into the airway. Based on these findings and a detailed, personalized interpretation of testing results, we can determine which patients are at increased risk of reflux-driven damage to the new lungs and who may benefit from treatment, whether that be medical or surgical and conducted pre- or post-transplant. “Our team is actively working to identify all patients with severe GERD in the pre-transplant setting. One unique aspect of our approach is that we incorporate state-of-the-art diagnostic tools into the workup.” From a surgical perspective, our goal is to optimize the transition from diagnosis to surgery, and to determine which types of patients with reflux may benefit from intervention. We prefer to perform robotic anti-reflux surgery within 30 to 60 days following lung transplant to minimize any damage from reflux to the new lungs. Our approach is unique in that we truly function as a multidisciplinary team. We hold biweekly lung transplant meetings, which include pulmonologists, esophagologists, and surgeons, where we discuss patients that were previously identified. This allows us to expedite the GERD workup, both pre- and post-transplant. We have also developed secure chat groups on Epic and other platforms that allow for more seamless flows of information and expedited scheduling between the specialist teams for these patients. An Early Glimpse of Success Dr. Damani, do you have any recent examples of success using this approach? Yes. We had a male in his 70s who underwent bilateral lung transplant for interstitial pulmonary fibrosis. He had severe reflux and regurgitation that could not be medically controlled. Shortly after his transplant, he underwent an extensive GERD workup by our esophageal team and we elected to perform a robotic fundoplication. Overall, he did fantastic despite being on immunosuppression and was discharged two days after surgery on no pain medications. He has a great quality of life now, is off all his reflux meds, and is residing back home in Colombia. A Vision for the Future Since seeing early success using this approach, what are your future goals? Utilizing our current pre-lung transplant protocol, we hope to add to the sparse body of literature that pertains to the treatment of GERD in lung transplant patients. Our future aim is to identify the most appropriate medical and surgical therapies for GERD and esophageal motility disorders, both before and after transplant, that lead to successful long-term outcomes. “Our testing approach shows great promise to improve long-term outcomes for lung transplant patients. As we collect and analyze more data, we hope to disseminate these findings.” Dr. Damani Our testing approach shows great promise to improve long-term outcomes for lung transplant patients. As we collect and analyze more data, we hope to disseminate these findings through publications in peer-reviewed journals and conference presentations—this would greatly benefit the broader scientific and medical communities. Creating Foundational AI Models for the Health System Reading unstructured clinical notes, a large language model forecasts hospital readmission and other clinical factors. Training Future Neurologists to Conduct Successful Virtual Exams A Two-Pronged Pharmaceutic Approach to Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention The Tau NexGen trial is the first to target tau tangles and amyloid plaques with a pair of novel drugs. Telehealth tDCS Shows Promise for Neurologic Symptoms of Long COVID NYU Langone researcher helps lead nationwide study testing tDCS in conjunction with brain training. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2024 AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts joined other world leaders in Denver for six days of innovation, education, and networking at the 2024 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Below are some highlights of the more than 50 presentations featuring NYU Langone physicians and researchers. For a full list of presentations, please visit the AAN website Saturday, April 13 HeadTalks Benefits and Perils of Skiing: From Mental Well-being and Longevity to Ski Boot Compression Syndrome Presenter: Shae Datta, MD 2:15–3:00PM Sunday, April 14 Introducing the Mobile Integrated Cognitive Kit (MICK) App for Rapid Visual Assessment in a Youth Ice Hockey League for Concussion P2 – Poster Session 2 Sara Hyman Mason M. Blacker, Christina Marini, Samarah Ahmed, Ruby Ross, Mitchell Jarmol, Scott N. Grossman, MD 11:45AM–12:45PM Infection Rates Associated with Anti-CD20 Treatment in Pediatric Onset Multiple Sclerosis S7 – Multiple Sclerosis: Special Populations and Non-MS CNS Neuroinflammatory Disease Lauren Seidman Nadine Azmy, Anna Sosa, Ugo Nwigwe, Kimberly A. O’Neill, MD 4:30–4:42PM Monday, April 15 Plenary Multi-institutional Study of Neurologic Outcomes in People with Multiple Sclerosis Who Are Treated with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors for Oncologic Indications PL4 – Contemporary Clinical Issues Hannah Kopinsky, MD, 10:15–10:25AM Controversies in Contact Sports: Would you let your kid play? SS5 – AAN Section Spotlight: Neurologic Overlap in Persistent Post-Concussion Syndrome, Sleep, and Headaches Scientific Platform Session Neuronal Microstructure and Glymphatic System Integrity in Migraine Patients Assessed with High-gradient Diffusion MRI S20 – Hot Topics in Headache Melanie Li, MD NYU Langone author: Katharina Eikermann-Haerter, MD 4:18–4:30PM Wednesday, April 17 Measuring Burnout and Practices of Appreciation Within a Neurology Department: Identifying Prevalence and Shaping Solutions S39 – Broadening the Scope of Medical Education in Neurology Daniel De Souza, 4:54–5:06PM Thursday, April 18 Binocular Visual Function Testing in an Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center (ADRC) Cohort: Low-contrast Letter Acuity and Rapid Automatized Naming (RAN) Tasks of MULES and SUN S40 – Neuro-ophthalmology/Neuro-otology Sara Hyman, Arjun V. Masurkar, MD, PhD 2:00–2:12PM Settling the Surgery vs. Observation Debate for Acoustic Tumors Study finds no increased risk of hearing loss following stereotactic radiosurgery. Out of 318 patients with unilateral acoustic tumors, 198 had serviceable hearing and 116 had Class A hearing. Within each of the serviceable hearing and Class A hearing patient groups, half of the patients received radiosurgery while the other half were observed, and no difference in hearing loss was found between the different treatment approaches over the course of the study. For patients with intact hearing, the prospect of sterotactic radiosurgery to remove a vestibular schwannoma may trigger concerns. However, new findings suggest the intervention may be a conservative hearing preservation strategy. “There are patients who choose observation for their tumor in the hope of maintaining hearing for as long as possible, while the tumor may still grow, and others who choose gamma knife radiosurgery earlier with the aim of stopping tumor growth and maintaining hearing,” says , director of the Center for Advanced Radiosurgery. Dr. Kondziolka teamed up with neurosurgery chair , and neurosurgery resident Zane Schnurman, MD, to directly compare hearing outcomes between the two approaches. In the largest study on the topic to date, the team split groups of patients with unilateral vestibular schwannomas into observation or surgery cohorts. The researchers controlled for potential confounders, such as tumor volume, patient age, and sex. “For the first time, this study showed that both approaches led to similar hearing outcomes during the observation period.” Among 198 patients with serviceable hearing at baseline, there were no significant differences in survival or median time to hearing loss between the cohorts. For 116 patients with Class A hearing at baseline, hearing loss occurred 27.2 and 29.2 months later in the surgery and observation cohorts, respectively. “For the first time, this study showed that both approaches led to similar hearing outcomes during the observation period,” Dr. Kondziolka says. The study has earned the Lunsford & Leksell Radiosurgery Award at the 2022 American Association of Neurological Surgeons Annual Scientific Meeting. Douglas Kondziolka, MD, is the Gray Family Professor of Neurosurgery, a professor of radiation oncology, and vice chair of clinical research in the Department of Neurosurgery. He is also director of the Center for Advanced Radiosurgery and specializes in metastatic brain tumors, acoustic neuroma, meningioma, primary brain tumors, brain vascular malformations, and other neurologic conditions. Challenging Old Ideas About Retinal Band 2 The outer retinal region known as band 2 has long been recognized as a useful biomarker for visual outcome in numerous retinal diseases. Yet no consensus exists on whether band 2 represents the photoreceptor inner segment/outer segment (IS/OS) junction or the IS ellipsoid mitochondria. Because aspects of retinal anatomy at the micrometer scale cannot be resolved by even the highest-resolution near-infrared optical coherence tomography (NIR OCT) systems, that controversy has yet to be settled. A study presented at the 2023 Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology annual meeting, however, offered evidence that could help tip the scales . Led by Vivek J. Srinivasan, PhD , associate professor of ophthalmology and radiology, and postdoctoral fellow Pooja Chauhan, PhD, the researchers used a novel approach—visible light OCT, whose shorter central wavelengths can yield a much finer axial resolution. “Our measurements agreed much more closely with the IS/OS junction than with the distribution of mitochondria in the IS.” “With this technology, we’re not just looking at layers of the retina, but at structures within layers,” says Dr. Srinivasan, whose lab is developing improvements in system design aimed at making the modality a practical complement to NIR OCT. Reflectivity Division Suggests a Myoid Origin In their study, the team performed in vivo visible light OCT to investigate the IS myoid and ellipsoid zones in mouse retinas, and then compared results with ex vivo histology and electron microscopy. They observed a subtle reflectivity division between these zones—a disparity with surprising characteristics. “When we zoomed in with resolution on the micron scale, we found that the myoid had higher reflectivity than the ellipsoid, where the mitochondria are,” Dr. Srinivasan explains. This result, he adds, challenges the current interpretation of band 2 being due mainly to mitochondria scattering within the ellipsoid. “It’s crucial that we learn to interpret the data on these regions correctly, both to improve our diagnostic capabilities and to develop better treatments.” “Our measurements agreed much more closely with the IS/OS junction than with the distribution of mitochondria in the IS, suggesting that the latter hypothesis for band 2 needs to be reevaluated.” Shedding Light on Macular Degeneration Progression In previous research, Dr. Srinivasan and his team have discovered half a dozen new retinal features using visible light OCT, including bands in the photoreceptors, the retinal pigment epithelium, and Bruch’s membrane. Going forward, the group plans to investigate how these features change in normal aging and in age-related macular degeneration. “By examining these bands in minute detail, we hope to get a clearer understanding of macular degeneration and other retinal disorders,” Dr. Srinivasan explains. “It’s crucial that ophthalmologists learn to interpret the data on these regions correctly, both to improve our diagnostic capabilities and to develop better treatments.” Ophthalmology, Radiology Vivek J. Srinivasan, PhD, is an associate professor of ophthalmology and radiology. His research centers on the development of new light-based technologies for in vivo imaging and sensing of the eye and brain. Testing In-Office Tissue Regeneration for Eardrum Perforations Conventional surgical approaches to repair a hole in the eardrum, or tympanic membrane perforation (TMP), involve using graft material to repair the opening, requiring general anesthesia and accompanied by significant costs that may be shared by patients. This creates potential barriers to treatment for certain groups including older patients, those with cardiopulmonary issues, and patients with a perforation in their only hearing ear. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 trial , researchers at NYU Langone Health are evaluating the efficacy of a minimally invasive, in-office repair that uses fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) to regenerate the eardrum in chronic, nonhealing TMPs. As part of the study, patients in the control group receive the same in-office approach, with FGF-2 replaced with sterile water. “For patients living with TMP who have been avoiding eardrum repair due to a desire to avoid surgery, age, comorbidities, or existing hearing-related concerns, this less invasive approach may offer a viable alternative.” David R. Friedmann, MD “A randomized controlled trial like this is the gold standard, but it’s rare in surgery because of the complexity of the trial design and the ability to execute it in an unbiased way,” says neurotologist , principal investigator of the study. “Our goal is to produce gold-standard evidence regarding nonsurgical options to treat nonhealing tympanic membrane perforations.” “If the FGF-2 is successful, it will present a significant change in available treatments as well as the groups of patients we can help,” adds Dr. Friedmann. Tissue Regeneration Versus Traditional Tympanoplasty In conventional TMP repair, surgeons use cartilage or other tissue to repair the hole in the operating room. “Certainly with larger perforations of the eardrum, many believe this is the only option for successful closure,” Dr. Friedmann notes. “But the eardrum never looks quite the same and may not vibrate as well as a native eardrum.” In contrast, the approach under study is performed in an office setting. The growth factor under investigation is soaked into a gelatin sponge and secured in place with several drops of fibrin glue. Previous animal studies have demonstrated FGF’s ability to stimulate the division and differentiation of fibroblasts and promote angiogenesis, improve blood flow, and thereby improve closure rates by regenerating the fibrous layer of the eardrum. Images after successful closure often are indistinguishable in appearance and function from a normal eardrum, says Dr. Friedmann. Study Protocol In the ongoing trial, participants are randomized to receive FGF-2 or placebo treatment (the same in-office procedure without FGF-2). Subjects randomized to the placebo arm that do not show complete closure after this initial treatment may cross over to receive the active treatment. The primary outcome is complete eardrum closure as assessed by pre- and post-treatment photography. Secondary outcomes include time to closure, changes in pure-tone and speech discrimination scores, mobility of tympanic membrane as measured by tympanometry, and salvage rate of FGF-2 in patients who fail placebo treatment. A New Paradigm for Tympanic Membrane Perforation Treatment The in-office approach under study is less invasive than conventional surgical treatment. “Patients can avoid completing preoperative medical testing and labs, and barring unforeseen complications, walk out of the office minutes later, avoiding the need to take time off from work or recover from anesthesia. Additionally, it may be less expensive than conventional surgery,” says Dr. Friedmann. The trial is open for recruitment through 2023. Both providers and patients are welcome to inquire. “For patients living with TMP who have been avoiding eardrum repair due to a desire to avoid surgery, age, comorbidities, or existing hearing-related concerns, this less invasive approach may offer a viable alternative,” adds Dr. Friedmann. Learn more about the trial and patient eligibility. David R. Friedmann, MD, is an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery. His work focuses on the medical and surgical management of hearing issues and skull base disorders in both children and adults, including chronic ear disease, vestibular schwannoma, and cochlear implants. NYU Langone Health Presenters at COSM 2024 NYU Langone Health experts join colleagues from around the world at the 2024 Combined Otolaryngology Spring Meetings (COSM) in Chicago. COSM is the premier educational and technology forum for providing the subspecialties in Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery with an opportunity to improve and expand knowledge and skills to enhance the quality of patient care. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Of particular note is that , will be named the incoming president of the American Neurotology Society. For a full list of presentations at the COSM conference, please visit this website Thursday, May 16 Outcomes of Nasal Tip and Septal Extension Grafts with Autologous Versus Homologous Costal Cartilage Session : Oral : Manuela von Sneidern and : 8:30AM Long-Term Outcomes of In-Office KTP Laser Ablation of Vocal Fold Polyps in Performers : Scientific Session IV—Voice NYU Langone Presenters : Mackenzie O’Connor and : 1:06PM Friday, May 17 Fistulograms for the Management of Recurrent and Atypical Congenital Neck Anomalies : Poster Zahrah Taufique, MD , and Sukaina Hasnie, MD Saturday, May 18 Plastics and Craniofacial II: Practical Approaches. Pediatric Nasal Fractures, Cleft Lip and Palate, VPI : Expert Panel: Plastics and Craniofacial : 4:10–4:55PM Vascular Anomalies II: Practical Approaches. Lymphatic Malformations of the Tongue; Macrocystic Lymphatic Malformations of the Neck : Expert Panel: Vascular Anomalies Megan M. Gaffey, MD : 4:50–5:40PM Sunday, May 19 Michael E. Glassock Scientific Merit Award: Cochlear Implantation with Sporadic Inner Ear Schwannomas: An International, Multi-Institutional Study of 90 Patients : Future Directions in Cochlear Implantation : 10:22AM J. Thomas Roland Jr., MD, Named as the Incoming President of the American Neurotology Society Introduction of President : 11:51AM Surgically Managing a Rare Complication of NF1 Dystrophic Scoliosis For a young male with severe spinal cord compression, advanced operative techniques and imaging offer a path to recovery. Eyeing the Future of Neurosurgery The editor-in-chief of Neurosurgery discusses emerging research trends, including the rise of AI and big data. Building Implantable Tech for Real-Time Seizure Data BRAIN Initiative award supports further development with a clinical trial planned. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AANS Annual Scientific Meeting NYU Langone Health physicians joined their colleagues at the Culture of Neurosurgery conference in Philadelphia April 29 - May 2, 2022. Clarifying Connections Between Acoustic Tumor Size and Hearing Loss In One Day, Surgeons Resect Tumor, Restore Hearing, and Initiate Facial Reanimation in NF2 Patient A challenging, but successful multidisciplinary coordination enhances a patient's treatment and recovery. Researchers Launch World’s Largest Public Database of Brain Tumor Scans In metastatic brain cancer, new mutations can arise spontaneously or in response to interventions, confounding researchers’ ability to track how the cancer is spreading and evolving genetically, molecularly, and clinically. “Almost all tumors respond to treatment, but there’s a lot of variability in how they change,” says NYU Langone Health neurosurgeon . To better understand metastatic brain cancer and how it evolves, Dr. Kondziolka has teamed up with fellow neurosurgeon , to use artificial intelligence (AI) to create the world’s largest public database of brain tumor images. Their project, called NYUMets for “NYU metastases,” is creating a new suite of AI tools to help clinical researchers mine the images for relevant data, map disease progression in real time, and assess how individual cancers are responding to treatment. “For the first time, scientists anywhere will be able to apply computational tools developed from this database for clinical purposes,” Dr. Oermann says. “We are contributing to the public good by essentially giving out free information for the world to use for research.” The collaborators focused on metastatic brain cancer for two main reasons: The disease is hard to treat with standard drugs, radiation techniques, and surgery, and researchers have an unmet need for sufficient data and tools to study it in its full complexity. Over the roughly two-year span that patients receive treatment, they undergo an average of nine scans. “We’re combining the imaging with the clinical outcome data, and then researchers can use it to build their own analytics and test them,” Dr. Kondziolka says. “We are contributing to the public good by essentially giving out free information for the world to use for research.” A Powerful Image Repository The project, officially launched last fall, began a decade ago when Dr. Kondziolka started cataloging the brain scans, treatment plans, and clinical data from patients treated at NYU Langone’s . The repository has since grown to include more than 20,000 image sequences, drawn from 8,003 MRI studies of 1,429 patients. Layering on the AI tools will transform the image catalog into a powerful research tool for neurosurgeons and brain cancer researchers alike. “We do our best to assess how tumors grow or shrink over time,” Dr. Kondziolka says. “But we’re left to wonder: Did the tumor shrink by 17 percent or 75 percent? Did drug X make it shrink more than drug Y? Was radiation more effective than drug X? None of these things are very clear.” The project pairs his expertise in brain cancer and metastases with Dr. Oermann’s extensive background in AI to capture the cancer dynamics in a more comprehensive way. “I saw this amazing opportunity to take the work that Dr. Kondziolka has been doing, tie it into multiple other resources at NYU, de-identify it, and then use that to empower… research communities to make advances in how we study brain cancer and brain metastases.” “Dr. Kondziolka has the largest registry of brain metastases in the world that he’s been painstakingly curating for years,” Dr. Oermann says. “As a computational scientist, I saw this amazing opportunity to take the work that he’s been doing, tie it into multiple other resources at NYU, de-identify it, and then use that to empower the AI and clinical research communities to make advances in how we study brain cancer and brain metastases.” Promising Collaborations The sheer size of the NYUMets database may help researchers overcome the traditional limitations of evidence-based clinical trials, which can be constrained by a smaller size of participants or skewed composition of patient samples. So far, the highly collaborative database has harnessed the combined resources of NYU Langone’s Departments of ; the NYU Center for Data Science ; and the Center for Advanced Imaging Innovation and Research . The project has received additional support from nVidia Inc. and Amazon Web Services. The added power of AI tools has allowed Dr. Kondziolka and Dr. Oermann to launch new collaborations as well, such as a joint project with research scientist and machine learning expert Katherine Link to develop an algorithm for detecting small brain tumors. “We need to fundamentally rethink how we approach cancer analytics if we are to better understand and ultimately treat it,” Dr. Oermann says. “Our goal is to encourage computational scientists to start thinking about cancer the way clinicians do—not as an independent entity, but as a disease someone lives with over time.” NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 ASCO Annual Meeting Our researchers and physicians will be joining colleagues from around the world at the American Society of Clinical Oncology’s 2024 annual meeting in Chicago. This year’s theme is the Art and Science of Cancer Care: From Comfort to Cure. During this year’s meeting, Jeffrey S. Weber, MD, PhD will be presenting late-breaking data on a phase 2 trial exploring the effectiveness of combining the immunotherapy drug pembrolizumab with the neoantigen mRNA vaccine V940 for people with high-risk, surgically removed melanoma. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year (see full listings of presenters at the links provided). Saturday, June 1 A phase 1/2 dose escalation and expansion study of sonodynamic therapy with SONALA-001 in combination with Exablate 4000 Type 2.0 MR-guided focused ultrasound in patients with progressive or recurrent glioblastoma (rGBM) Central Nervous System Tumors 9:00AM–12:00PM EVEREST-2: A seamless phase 1/2 study of A2B694, a mesothelin (MSLN) logic-gated Tmod CAR T-cell therapy, in patients with solid tumors that show MSLN expression and human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*02 loss of heterozygosity (LOH) Developmental Therapeutics–Immunotherapy Salman R. Punekar, MD An open-label, phase 1, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and preliminary anti-tumor activity of NT‑112 in human leukocyte antigen-C*08:02–positive adult patients with unresectable, advanced, and/or metastatic solid tumors that are positive for the KRAS G12D mutation Interleukin-6 receptor blockade with tocilizumab to reduce immune-related toxicity with ipilimumab and nivolumab in metastatic melanoma Melanoma/Skin Cancers Judith D. Goldberg, ScD Janice Mehnert, MD , Xiaochun Li, Benjamin Levinson 1:30–4:30PM INTerpath-001: Pembrolizumab with V940 (mRNA-4157) versus pembrolizumab with placebo for adjuvant treatment of high-risk stage II-IV melanoma Monday, June 3 Late-Breaking Data Individualized neoantigen therapy mRNA-4157 (V940) plus pembrolizumab in resected melanoma: 3-year update from the mRNA-4157-P201 (KEYNOTE-942) trial A follow-up presentation to the recently published clinical trial describing the effectiveness of combining the immunotherapy drug pembrolizumab with the neoantigen mRNA vaccine V940. This three-year update shows a higher percentage of durable and meaningful long-term recurrence-free survival or survival without distant spread of cancer in patients who received both treatments (74.8%) compared to those who received only pembrolizumab (55.6%). 10:15–10:21AM Real-world treatment patterns and outcomes by mismatch repair/microsatellite instability (MMR/MSI) status in patients (pts) with advanced endometrial cancer (aEC), 2018-2023 Infant with CHAOS Receives Lifesaving EXIT Procedure at Birth Under high-risk conditions, a large surgical team executes a complex procedure for congenital high-airway obstruction syndrome. Revision Cochlear Implant Surgery:Readying for a Growing Need With careful planning and electrode selection, revisions offer renewed hearing for patients with device failure. Presenters at the 2022 AAO-HNSF Annual Meeting￼ NYU Langone Health experts joined international colleagues in Philadelphia, September 10-14. Community-Based Outreach: Changing the Model for Hearing Loss Screening Bevacizumab Biosimilar Could Drive Up Costs Current costs of intraocular anti-VEGF medications versus projected costs after FDA approval of a bevacizumab biosimilar. ADAPTED FROM: 2023 Apr 26;S0161-6420(23)00295-6. Anti-VEGF drugs to treat retinal disease represent a major cost for the healthcare system and for patients. Several such medications are currently approved by the FDA for intraocular use, including aflibercept, ranibizumab and the biosimilars ranibizumab-nuna and ranibizumab-eqm. In addition, a cancer drug, bevacizumab, is widely used off-label and for a relatively low cost due to the ability to repackage one oncologic dose vial into multiple doses for intraocular use. However, an investigational bevacizumab biosimilar, now awaiting FDA approval, might challenge the use of off-label bevacizumab as an economical alternative. While biosimilars generally help drive costs down, a study led by NYU Langone Health researchers suggests that this drug—bevacizumab-vikg—could substantially increase the cost burden of intravitreal anti-VEGF agents “Unless the FDA can be persuaded to allow an exemption for repackaged bevacizumab, the introduction of an intraocular bevacizumab biosimilar could raise costs dramatically.” Ravi Parikh, MD, MPH That danger arises, the team notes, because the U.S. Drug Quality and Security Act prohibits the compounding of a copy of an approved medication. If the FDA approves a bevacizumab biosimilar for intraocular use, the repackaging of bevacizumab cancer drugs for such purposes could be curtailed. Meanwhile, the biosimilar could command a higher price. To determine the impact of such a scenario, the researchers calculated Medicare Part B and patient payments (directly or via secondary insurance) for the most commonly used medications for which data is available. Aflibercept was the most expensive option, at a cost per dose of about $1,451 to Medicare and $361 to patients. Repackaged bevacizumab was least expensive, at $70 to Medicare and $18 to patients. If an intraocular bevacizumab biosimilar was priced at $500, the team found, costs to Medicare would increase by 15.2 percent per year—from $3.01 billion to $3.47 billion. Patient responsibility would increase from $768 million to $884 million. If the new biosimilar was priced at $900, Medicare costs would rise to $3.91 billion, an increase of 29.8 percent. Patient responsibility would soar to $997 million. “Unless the FDA can be persuaded to allow an exemption for repackaged bevacizumab,” says senior author , director of healthcare delivery research for NYU Langone’s Department of Ophthalmology, “the introduction of an intraocular bevacizumab biosimilar that is approved for intraocular use could raise costs dramatically, and also likely limit access to an anti-VEGF drug that has been demonstrated to be safe and effective for nearly 20 years.” Disclosure: Dr. Parikh has received consulting fees from Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, Apellis Pharmaceuticals, GLC Consultants, and Health and Wellness Partners. Ravi S. Parikh, MD, MPH Ravi S. Parikh, MD, MPH, is director of healthcare delivery research and a clinical associate professor of ophthalmology. His research interests center on improving therapeutic options for patients with ophthalmic disorders. AI Predicts Outcomes & Treatment Frequency for Retinal Vein Occlusion Central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) can result in varying levels of vision compromise ranging from minor to severe vision loss. While there are excellent treatments for CRVO and visual recovery can improve, the ability to predict the extent of improvement is limited. New findings from investigators at NYU Langone Health indicate a machine learning algorithm could predict visual and anatomic outcomes in patients with macular edema following CRVO (MEfCRVO) being treated with intravitreal aflibercept injection . Additionally, the algorithm predicts dosing frequency with high accuracy. “Most patients ask, ‘How many injections will I need?’ What we’re trying to do is provide some prognostic value when the patient shows up to see the physician,” says vitreoretinal surgeon Yasha S. Modi, MD , who was part of the team that helped to create the model. “Most patients ask, ‘How many injections will I need?’ What we’re trying to do is provide some prognostic value when the patient shows up to see the physician.” While more research is needed before the tool can be introduced in the clinic, the new findings validate the predictive model and serve as a proof of concept for second- and third-generation models. “With central retinal vein occlusion, there are hugely disparate outcomes. The best predictor of long-term vision is the visual acuity you present with,” Dr. Modi says. “We have all this sophisticated imaging and other relevant data, but we don’t know if those are relevant in a predictive way.” Predicting Outcomes The researchers used datasets from the COPERNICUS GALILEO clinical trials, which tested intravitreal aflibercept injection for MEfCRVO. Both trials mandated six monthly injections; patients were then moved into a pro re nata (PRN; as needed) window and followed for at least one year. “Our goal was to see if we could predict what would happen to individuals after they reached the PRN threshold,” says Dr. Modi. The algorithm evaluated best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and central subfield thickness (CST) over a range of time points to predict outcomes at the one-year mark. BCVA at weeks 20 and 24 (the visits before switching from monthly to PRN treatment) were the best predictors of change in BCVA; CST at baseline was a predictor of change in CST, but not absolute CST. “The algorithm was very good at predicting absolute visual acuity six months after switching over to PRN treatment, as well as change in visual acuity,” Dr. Modi says. “It was less reliable at predicting the absolute central subfield thickness, however.” Translating Machine Learning to the Clinic Algorithms, while very good at diagnosing the stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR), are currently not able to outperform humans in differential diagnosis, Dr. Modi says. Yet with the sheer number of individuals who need to be screened for DR nationwide, there is value in applying assistive algorithms. NYU Langone has a remote DR screening program—a semi-automated camera in the field takes an image, which is then sent to a retinal specialist who interprets it as mild, moderate, severe, or proliferative DR. Algorithms don’t have that granularity just yet, Dr. Modi explains. “There are, however, already FDA-approved AI cameras that can decipher moderate diabetic retinopathy or worse. This binary branch point then triggers an alert to schedule an in-person visit.” It’s easy to see the future as these algorithms get progressively better, he adds. “What if in Walmart or CVS, for instance, patients could get a real-time diagnosis using an algorithm to read the image? If the algorithm detects a significant abnormality, you see a doctor right away. If not, you get screened annually.” Augmenting the Algorithm with Optical Coherence Tomography Moving forward, the team hopes to conduct a prospective study to test the CRVO algorithm, perhaps including optical coherence tomography (OCT) in a supervised fashion. “These are older studies; OCT images are much better now,” Dr. Modi says. He is interested in changes on OCT that might serve as predictive biomarkers. “However, the more you annotate the image, the more you add your own bias when you’re developing an algorithm,” he notes. “It’s a delicate balance.” Uveitis, Vitreoretinal Surgery, Retinal Ophthalmology Yasha S. Modi, MD, is a vitreoretinal surgeon and an associate professor in the Department of Ophthalmology. His research focuses on imaging in retinal vascular disease, including diabetes and vein occlusion, retinal drug toxicity, age-related macular degeneration, and the outcomes of retinal detachment surgery. Presenters at the 2024 AACR Annual Meeting Our cancer experts join international colleagues in San Diego from April 5 to 10. Disparities in Breast Cancer Care: How Risk Assessments Can Address the Gap Breast surgeon Dr. Kathie-Ann Joseph stresses greater vigilance regarding breast cancer risk in Black patients. Targeted Salvage Cryoablation Resolves Radio-Recurrent Prostate Cancer Personalized Two-Fraction SBRT for Localized Prostate Cancer Investigators evaluate a novel two-fraction approach that uses genetic and MRI data to personalize the radiation dosage. Panfacial Necrosis Reported in Immunodeficient Patients with Mpox During the global mpox outbreak that began in 2022, NYU Langone Health ophthalmologists at and NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue cared for two patients whose advanced immunosuppression due to prior HIV infection led to previously unreported and unusually severe oculocutaneous manifestations. The Lancet Infectious Diseases , the clinicians reported that both patients with mpox infection developed severe lesions that spread to a confluent panfacial gangrene with skin necrosis around the eyes and eyelids. In one case, the gangrene caused bilateral globe compromise from corneal perforations. Despite intensive care, both patients died due to systemic complications from their treatment-resistant infections. “Our conclusion is that in patients with advanced cell-mediated immunodeficiencies like HIV/AIDS, confluent necrosis can develop from an initial mpox lesion.” Steven Carrubba, MD Based on careful histology and a review of decades-old case reports, the researchers found a striking similarity to symptoms of severe infection from the closely related vaccinia virus. “The big takeaway is that we can learn a lot about this disease from prior experiences with related orthopoxviruses that are genetically and clinically similar, such as smallpox and vaccinia,” says chief ophthalmology resident Steven Carrubba, MD, the study’s lead author. A Rare Progression Classic mpox symptoms often include a skin rash or painful lesions, while ophthalmic manifestations can include a vesicular rash around the eyes and eyelids, conjunctivitis, and blepharitis—and in more serious cases, corneal infection and scarring. Ophthalmology chair , who advised on the study, notes that mpox has the potential to be very severe in patients with undiagnosed or untreated immunosuppression, and that an immunological work-up should be considered in anyone presenting with the disease. “This study underscores the importance of paying attention to previously published literature, even if it is from the distant past.” “This study underscores the importance of paying attention to previously published literature, even if it is from the distant past, when faced with new conditions or infectious diseases,” Dr. Colby says. “Through clinical analogy, we can anticipate which systemic and ophthalmic complications of mpox may arise in people who are immunocompromised, and what to expect during future outbreaks,” Dr. Carrubba adds. Lessons from History In very rare cases, according to historical reports, patients vaccinated against smallpox with a replicative form of the vaccinia virus developed profound cutaneous gangrene at the site of inoculation and subsequently throughout the body. In this “progressive vaccinia,” patients were unable to mount a lymphocyte-driven, cell-mediated skin response, which allowed the virus to spread and cause highly necrotic gangrenous lesions. Tellingly, that cutaneous gangrene occurred predominantly in patients with immunodeficiencies involving T cells, such as severe combined immunodeficiency, lymphoma, and leukemia. “Histologically and clinically, we saw almost the exact same findings in patients with advanced AIDS who became coinfected with mpox,” Dr. Carrubba says, including an almost complete lack of lymphocytes in the affected tissues. “Our conclusion is that in patients who have advanced cell-mediated immunodeficiencies like HIV/AIDS, confluent progressive necrosis can develop from an initial mpox lesion by uninhibited and contiguous spread of virus in tissues devoid of functional lymphocytes,” Dr. Carrubba says. “One lesion continues to expand because the immune system is not able to contain it, much like what clinicians saw with the vaccinia virus.” The similarities between progressive cutaneous mpox and progressive vaccinia also provide insight into how mpox corneal lesions may evolve after autoinoculation of an immune-deficient ocular surface, potentially explaining cases of necrotizing keratitis and globe compromise. Treatment Considerations Neither mpox patient had been vaccinated before the onset of symptoms nor had they been taking highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) to treat their advanced AIDS. “For any immunosuppressed patient who presents with suspected mpox, even before official diagnosis, starting treatment early is key,” Dr. Carrubba says. The antiviral tecovirimat is the mainstay systemic treatment for mpox. In addition, he says, starting patients on HAART is critical for immune reconstitution, while a non-replicative mpox vaccine can be given within 14 days of suspected exposure, before symptom onset. For severe or treatment-resistant cases, the CDC recommends additional therapeutics such as cidofovir, brincidofovir, or vaccinia immune globulin. For patients with active skin lesions, maintaining good hand hygiene and avoiding contact lenses are important precautions against localized autoinoculation of the eyes, Dr. Carrubba adds. Trifluridine antiviral eyedrops can be used both prophylactically and as a treatment for corneal and conjunctival disease, while antibiotic and lubricating eyedrops can prevent bacterial superinfection and corneal desiccation. Based on similarities between mpox and vaccinia, Dr. Carrubba says, the population at risk for progressive cutaneous or ophthalmic mpox extends beyond patients with HIV/AIDS to include people with hematologic malignancies, such as leukemia and lymphoma, and other diseases that compromise host lymphocyte function. “It’s important for patients and clinicians to maintain awareness that such severe disease can occur in immunocompromised populations so that both parties can seek the right preventive and treatment measures,” he says. Steven Carrubba, MD, is chief resident within the Department of Ophthalmology. Dr. Alec Kimmelman On Highlights from AACR 2024 Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health. For anyone who missed the 2024 AACR Annual Meeting, director of the at NYU Langone Health , discussed some of the most interesting and important topics during a recent interview with , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM. Subscribers can hear the full discussion One of the things that the American Association for Cancer Research focused on is this idea that younger people are getting cancer, and maybe it has something to do with biological aging. Why is this happening? Is it processed foods? Is it alcohol? What’s causing the increase that we’re finding in cancer rates in younger people? It’s multifactorial, and I don’t think we really, truly have a handle on it. Each cancer is probably going to be a bit different. I mean, exposures are certainly something that is in play here. The food we eat, the microbiome, all of them are in play here. And you’re right, cellular aging is an emerging field that may explain some of this. But I don’t think we have the answer yet in a way that could be useful, to help us at this point. What about personalized medicine? Is everybody going to have a different treatment for their cancer? Absolutely. The goal is to be able to take a patient’s tumor—and this is something that we’re building here, and offer a lot of already—and analyze it comprehensively, assessing the genetic makeup and histological makeup. We aim to understand the unique nature of each patient’s tumor. What do we know about it? How do we expect it will behave? What drugs will this respond to? And you have to do that both accurately, but also relatively quickly, because you can’t wait months to start cancer therapy on patients. “The ultimate goal will be to take a patient’s tumor, make a diagnosis, and have them leave the same day with a personalized cocktail of chemotherapeutics—hopefully oral drugs.” The ultimate goal will be to take a patient’s tumor, make a diagnosis, and have them leave the same day with a personalized cocktail of chemotherapeutics—hopefully oral drugs that target specific mutations in their tumor—so their particular tumor receives the optimal therapy. All of this has to be paired together. It’s what we’re doing now, and it’s only going to become more prevalent. You’re working with CRISPR genetic alterations. We’re going into almost a science-fiction world where we’re altering genetics as well as proteomics to create treatments, right? You’re right, we have tools now that we’ve never had before. We can do gene editing, which is what CRISPR is. And we can actually change individual nucleotides or base pairs in a tumor. So, you can imagine scenarios where you can correct defects. What we’re going to try and do, and we have been doing, is to make the tumors more immunogenic. CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing enzyme, computer illustration. SOURCE: Getty Images. The mRNA vaccine technology is also very powerful. It allows a very rapid way to personalize vaccines. At AACR, longer-term results of an mRNA vaccine for pancreatic cancer were announced. That team showed that there are sustained immune responses out to a couple of years. So, I think it’s an exciting time. And going back to your point about translational research, this is the ultimate example, where you can make a personalized vaccine for a patient in a fairly quick amount of time. We have to do better, but it’s just amazing how fast that can go. How does all of this extend to healthcare disparities? Because one of the things we didn’t mention yet is cost, and cost is enormous when you have new treatments, especially if it’s genetic editing. How are we going to make sure everybody gets access to this? One of the main focuses of a cancer center is to study the disparities that occur in our catchment area. So, we spend a lot of time first understanding what the disparities are in incidence. We have robust epidemiological programs to understand what are the disparities for cancer in our own area, which can also apply more broadly. There are whole community outreach and engagement programs that we have here to make sure that patients understand what therapies are available to them and what the important preventative measures are, like vaccines for HPV. We want to make sure that they have access to all of the latest and greatest therapies. “We also have programs here to ensure that everyone gets access to clinical trials, regardless of their socioeconomic status. That’s very important to us.” So, we spend a lot of time making sure that patients are aware and have access to quality care. We also have programs here to ensure that everyone gets access to clinical trials, regardless of their socioeconomic status. That’s very important to us. Ultimately, as a healthcare system, the country is going to have to figure [this] out, and there’s going to be an issue in terms of the cost of healthcare. But I can say here we make sure that all of our latest clinical trials and latest developments are available to everybody. One final question about AACR, which is liquid biopsy, diagnosing things from blood tests. Where are we heading in the future? There’s a ton on this now, and I think people have probably heard about this in multiple different contexts. One is in the context of early detection. I think the trials are still ongoing in terms of the utility of it in that space. The other area is using it to follow patients with cancer. And this is where we’re very involved, because I think this is really the future of oncology, which is we’re going to need to follow patients with imaging to see when their tumors come back. But that takes hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of cells to see anything on MRI or a PET scan. But by taking a simple peripheral blood draw, we can sequence that blood and look for mutations from tumors, and then detect the cancer before we even see it on any sort of imaging. So, there’s an early detection for following therapy, and this allows us to change our therapies more quickly. But we can also follow what the next best therapy is because we could see that the cancer developed a resistance mutation, and that this drug will be more effective than the drug that you’re on, and we can make those changes early. And then [there’s] deescalating therapy. If a patient just had surgery and the circulating tumor DNA goes away, that patient might be someone who we can deescalate therapy in because we don’t see circulating tumor DNA. These are things that we use consistently here, and make sure that all patients have access to, but it really is the future. Taking a BOLD Step for Early Dementia Detection With the number of Americans living with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias expected to approach 14 million by 2050, an improved national strategy for dementia research, detection, and treatment will be crucial to mitigating the impact on patients, caregivers, and society at large. Recognizing that challenge, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recently established the Building Our Largest Dementia (BOLD) Infrastructure Public Health Centers of Excellence (PHCOEs) program, creating three national centers to lead efforts in the areas of early detection, risk reduction, and caregiving. NYU Langone Health was selected to house the BOLD center on Early Detection of Dementia, working alongside a center for Dementia Risk Reduction, administered by the Alzheimer’s Association, and one for Dementia Caregiving, based at the University of Minnesota. , co-directs the NYU Langone–based center with Soo Borson, MD, of the University of Southern California’s Keck School of Medicine. “Today, about 50 percent of people who live symptomatically with this condition go undiagnosed, and the consequences can be enormous,” says Dr. Chodosh. “Our charge is to help improve that record. “We envision a world in which dementia is detected before a crisis occurs, and in which early detection promotes better health and wellbeing not only of older adults, but also of their families, friends, and communities.” It is by design that the three centers overlap in their areas of focus, Dr. Chodosh adds. “We recognize the tremendous potential for collaboration. Risk reduction strategies, for example, may also serve as mitigating strategies, which typically work best in the context of early detection. Furthermore, those strategies may ease the burdens that dementia places on caregivers.” A National Resource on Early Detection A major initial step in the NYU Langone–based center’s mission was the creation of a multifaceted web portal —a national comprehensive resource of information on strategies to promote and enhance early dementia detection. Launched in May 2022, the site offers resources for policymakers, public agencies, nonprofits, clinicians, and other stakeholders who seek to develop or expand such efforts. Currently, clinical resources available on the portal include an early detection of dementia toolkit and a technical assistance component, which allows organizations to request the center’s expert help with decision-making, capacity building, strategic planning, networking, and other vital tasks. Additionally, the portal includes a library of infographics, newsletters, and articles. Video presentations are in development. Empowering Primary Care Providers and Communities The NYU Langone–based center’s overarching vision is to make early detection of dementia routine practice nationwide, says Dr. Chodosh. “Our position is that the place for this is really primary care. A major impediment to expanding detection is the assumption that it requires extremely specialized skills. Non-neurologist physicians often feel uncomfortable making a diagnosis—when in many instances, they can and should.” “A major impediment to expanding early detection is the assumption that it requires extremely specialized skills. Non-neurologist physicians often feel uncomfortable making a diagnosis—when in many instances, they can and should.” The center will offer education in various formats, including a comprehensive care pathway and other educational materials for providers, seminars, symposia, and other events. To improve health equity in dementia detection and treatment, it will disseminate information on public health, clinical, and community initiatives to partner organizations at the local level. “We envision a world in which dementia is detected before a crisis occurs,” says Dr. Chodosh, “Early detection promotes better health and wellbeing not only of older adults, but also of their families, friends, and communities.” No Link Found Between Bell’s Palsy & COVID-19 Vaccination A large meta-analysis finds no association between COVID-19 vaccination status and an increased risk of Bell’s palsy. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg . 2023 Jun 5. doi: 10.1002/ohn.385. Soon after the arrival of effective vaccines for the COVID-19 virus, a few patients reported Bell’s palsy or similar forms of facial paralysis on sites like the CDC’s Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), which collects raw data for further analysis into whether any correlation may point toward causation. Initial studies suggested that no link existed between the paralysis and the vaccines, but researchers hadn’t assembled and analyzed clinical data from large cohorts to provide a more definitive answer. In a systematic review and meta-analysis published in the journal , NYU Langone Health researchers have now shown from a pool of more than 20 million vaccinated patients that there is no association between Bell’s palsy and COVID-19 vaccination “We’ve done a thorough investigation and we can confidently tell patients that there is no increased risk for paralysis.” Facial plastic and reconstructive surgeon , the paper’s senior author, specializes in treating facial paralysis and sees many patients with Bell’s palsy and similar conditions. “I would get a lot of patients coming in and asking me if they should get the vaccine because they were worried about a potential link to the paralysis,” she says. “They were really fearful about it and I wanted to be able to give them a clear, evidence-based answer. That’s what prompted us to look into the question further.” A Reassuring Finding for Patients Dr. Eytan and two colleagues included every study around the world with more than 10,000 research subjects and compared the incidence of facial paralysis after vaccination with the incidence in unvaccinated control populations. In all, seven studies yielded a combined pool of more than 20 million vaccinated patients compared to an equivalent number of unvaccinated counterparts. Regardless of whether the patients received one or two doses, and whether they received a vaccine made by Moderna, Pfizer, or AstraZeneca, the researchers found no significant difference in Bell’s palsy rates compared with the general population. “The patients are curious: is one vaccine better than the other? There’s no concern there from what we found,” she says. “In fact, unvaccinated individuals who got the COVID-19 virus itself had a higher risk of Bell’s palsy compared to those who were vaccinated.” If anything, then, vaccination appeared to provide protection from the facial paralysis. With the study results in hand, Dr. Eytan has been able to reassure her patients that they shouldn’t fear vaccination. “We can now also remind them that the risk for paralysis is actually even greater if they do get COVID-19,” she says. The message is the same for physicians, she adds: “The evidence is there. We’ve done a thorough investigation by looking at millions of given vaccines and we can confidently tell patients that there is no increased risk for paralysis.” Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Cosmetic Plastic Surgery, Pediatric Plastic Surgery Danielle Eytan, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery. She specializes in facial plastic and reconstructive surgery, facial paralysis and reanimation, cosmetic plastic surgery, and pediatric plastic surgery. Refining Trauma Care to Better Serve Older Adults Geriatric trauma patients presenting in the emergency department are at high risk for complications and mortality during hospitalization and less likely to be discharged home. In a pilot program funded by a grant from The Fan Fox and Leslie R. Samuels Foundation , NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn will comprehensively examine the geriatric trauma care experience. “We are looking at those geriatric patients with serious traumatic injuries and trying to develop innovative solutions to provide better care in a complex and vulnerable patient population.” “We are looking at those geriatric patients with serious traumatic injuries and trying to develop innovative solutions to provide better care in a complex and vulnerable patient population,” says , medical director of geriatric medicine and palliative care at NYU Langone—Brooklyn. “This program establishes a purposeful process that in and of itself should ensure a higher level of care quality.” “Geriatricians, and geriatrics as a specialty, have worked hard to improve the inpatient experience for older patients,” says , director of the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care at NYU Langone Health. “The Brooklyn program will help to ‘bake in’ new strategies so that the geriatric population can be cared for in a certain way, with greater reliability.” Steps to Improve Geriatric Trauma Care Since 2019, geriatric specialists at NYU Langone—Brooklyn have played a robust role in acute trauma care, supporting the trauma service as they navigate core issues for elderly trauma patients such as frailty, delirium, and dementia. Led by Dr. Parker, the new program, called “Beyond Hospital Doors—Aging Wisely,” will expand the approach to further integrate emergency medicine, trauma, geriatrics, social work, nutrition, nursing, physical therapy, and pharmacy. “We have built a solid infrastructure to ensure this integration happens predictably,” she says. Focused meetings will be held with all clinical stakeholders to discuss how to collectively care for geriatric trauma patients. A weekly interdisciplinary work group including geriatrics, social work, physical therapy, and trauma will identify barriers to home discharge and formulate new care solutions. “We want to be sure the right kind of information is transmitted, and the right kind of actions can be taken,” Dr. Parker notes. Returning Patients to Pre-injury Living The 18-month pilot program aims to increase discharge to home by 10 percent, reducing transfer to skilled nursing. The hope is that with increased support, patients will be able to resume normal activities with greater ease and independence post-hospitalization. Another aim is to minimize polypharmacy by decreasing the number of medications or frequency of medication use—removing any medications that cause cognitive impairment. To reduce barriers to care, social workers will identify family and social support networks that can aid in healthcare decisions. The trauma team will initiate documented advance care planning discussions within 48 hours of admission and identify the need for further social work involvement. Transitional care management will be expanded for patients without primary care physicians or those who cannot see a primary care physician within two weeks. The program will increase early physical therapy and nutrition consults. Additionally, it will connect patients with services in the community that address vulnerabilities such as food insecurity and other social variables influencing health. “It’s been very rewarding to see the collaboration among the different departments here at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and to establish a more interdisciplinary model of care,” Dr. Parker says. “Everyone is working hard to see how they can improve care of these patients.” The Groundwork for Change According to Dr. Chodosh, the program is an opportunity to establish best practices and structures so that even in the absence of a large geriatric care workforce, clinicians elsewhere on the front lines can still “do the right thing.” “If we do a good job of clarifying the actions that yield the most benefit and how to achieve those actions, it will enable those who aren’t trained in geriatrics to focus on key principles, key issues, and key approaches to ensure we have the best outcomes for this population,” he says. Palliative Care, Geriatrics Lauren A. Parker, MD, is a clinical associate professor and medical director of geriatrics and palliative care at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn. Her research focuses on evidence-based care of vulnerable older adults. Mapping the Neural Networks Behind One-Shot Perceptual Learning Eric K. Oermann, MD, and Biyu J. He, PhD Learning from single events is a crucial element of human perceptual reasoning. Yet the neural networks that govern one-shot perceptual learning (as the process is known) are poorly understood. A $1.2 million grant from the W. M. Keck Foundation will enable NYU Langone Health researchers Biyu J. He, PhD , to explore those systems in unprecedented depth, using advanced imaging and computational techniques. The two hope that in the process the research will unveil new insights into the perceptual anomalies associated with many psychiatric illnesses. “The mechanisms thought to enable one-shot perceptual learning are also associated with a wide range of psychopathologies, including anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and psychosis,” explains Dr. He, an assistant professor of neurology, neuroscience and physiology, and radiology. “Developing detailed models for how this type of learning works could help us develop better treatments.” “The mechanisms thought to enable one-shot perceptual learning are also associated with a wide range of psychopathologies, including anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and psychosis. Developing detailed models for how this type of learning works could help us develop better treatments for those disorders.” This project also aims to solve a very different puzzle: how to improve perceptual learning in artificial intelligence (AI). “One-shot learning is one of the hardest problems in machine learning,” says Dr. Oermann, an assistant professor of neurosurgery and radiology. “By capturing the mechanisms behind this phenomenon in humans, we hope to develop more performant computational models.” Building on Previous Work A classic example of one-shot perceptual learning involves a so-called Mooney image—a photo of an object that has been degraded to a low-resolution, black-and-white image that is difficult to identify. In human trials, participants can typically recognize such an image after a single exposure to the original, intact photo. Once they’ve made that connection, moreover, they can remember it for days, months, or even longer. Previous studies by Dr. He and colleagues have suggested involvement of the frontoparietal and default-mode networks in Mooney image disambiguation. “Our findings support the idea that these areas play a special role in leveraging prior experience to guide perceptual processing,” Dr. He observes. “They also support theories positing aberrant interactions between internal priors and sensory input in psychiatric illnesses, which are often associated with abnormal patterns of activity in those brain regions.” Another study by Dr. He and her collaborator, Larry Squire, PhD, at the University of California, San Diego, in which patients with hippocampal lesions successfully performed a Mooney image task, showed that one-shot perceptual learning—unlike one-shot declarative memory— is not mediated by the hippocampus . “This suggests that non-hippocampal neural pathways may also be involved in the perceptual dysfunctions in psychiatric disorders,” says Dr. He. Forging New Paths In the new study, Dr. He and Dr. Oermann will seek to identify the larger neural networks mediating one-shot perceptual learning by combining behavioral experiments with 7-Tesla functional MRI (fMRI) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) in healthy volunteers. They will also perform intracranial recordings in neurosurgical patients during learning and other tasks. As they gather experimental data, Dr. Oermann will use the advanced machine learning capabilities available through his NYU Langone laboratory to build an AI counterpart to what they are learning about humans. These models will be continually tested and refined as the research continues. “One-shot learning is one of the hardest problems in machine learning. By capturing the mechanisms behind this phenomenon in humans, we hope to develop more performant computational models.” “Our major goal is to have a better understanding of how the human brain performs one-shot learning,” says Dr. Oermann. “But we also hope the neuroscience will guide us toward developing biomimetic mechanisms for solving the problem of one-shot perceptual learning in machines. Without this type of research, AI could remain over-tailored to the problem of recognizing ambiguous images, without the full robustness of biological perceptual systems.” Both researchers point out that more robust AI models for one-shot perceptual learning, in turn, could lead to enhanced therapies for neurological ills—for example, by developing communication devices for patients with locked-in syndrome, or robotic surgical systems for brain tumor resection. Neurology, Radiology Biyu J. He, PhD, is an assistant professor of neurology, neuroscience and physiology, and radiology. Her research focuses on the biological bases of perceptual cognition and subjective experience, and on developing new approaches to bridge neural and computational understanding of perception and perceptual disorders. Presenters at the 2023 AANS Annual Meeting In April, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Association of Neurological Surgeons’ 2023 annual meeting in Los Angeles. The theme was “Neurosurgeons as Advocates.” View full conference information and abstract titles Friday, April 21 Practical Clinic PC2203: Technological Adjuncts for Malignant Brain Tumor Surgery Course Director : 8–11:30 am Saturday, April 22 Scientific Session Comparison of Disc Height Restoration and Subsidence Rates Between Static Versus Expandable Titanium Cages for Lateral Lumbar Interbody Fusion : Scientific Session II: Spine Presenter Kimberly Ashayeri, MD : 3:35–3:40 pm The Predictive Potential of Nutritional and Metabolic Burden: Development of a Novel Validated Metric Predicting Increased Post-Operative Complications in Adult Spinal Deformity Surgery : Jamshaid M. Mir, MD : 3:41–3:46 pm Rosenblum-Mahaley Clinical Research Award (2023 Award Winner): GRASP Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced MRI Can Assist in Distinguishing Brain Metastasis Progression from Radiation Effects After Stereotactic Radiosurgery Scientific Session I: Tumor : Assaf Berger, MD 3:50–3:54 pm Better Teamwork Made Simple? Digital Preoperative Huddle Improves Quality and Efficiency in Neurosurgery Cases David B. Kurland, MD, PhD Scientific Session VI: Socioeconomic : 2:02–2:08 pm Sunday, April 23 Plenary Session II: Discussant Speaker : 9:03–9:05 am Artificial Intelligence for Brain Tumors: The Path Forward Section Session: Tumor : 1:33–1:43 pm Monday, April 24 Abstract Session Rapid Fire Research Forum Presenters Peter G. Passias, MD , Jamshaid M. Mir, MD : 7:25–9:50 am NYUMets: A Massive, Open-Source, Longitudinal Annotated Dataset of Metastatic Brain Cancer for Global Use Douglas Kondziolka, MD, MSc, FRCSC, FACS : 2:40–2:45 pm Managing Atrial Fibrillation in Older Patients Atrial fibrillation (A-fib) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia and carries a significant risk of stroke and heart failure. Older age is a known risk factor for the development of A-fib , and recent studies have demonstrated that screening asymptomatic older individuals with risk factors for stroke may be useful. At NYU Langone Health, cardiologists and geriatricians are partnering on a more proactive approach to identify older adults who may have A-fib but present with non–cardiac-specific symptoms. Integral to this effort is Adam H. Skolnick, MD , associate professor of medicine and a member of the , who recently published an editorial on this topic in the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society with co-author Nina Blachman, MD , assistant professor of medicine and director of the Geriatric Medicine Fellowship “Many older adults may not come to medical attention because they are unaware of their A-fib,” Dr. Skolnick says. “While many patients with A-fib do not report symptoms, some experience nonspecific symptoms, such as palpitation, dyspnea, or fatigue.” Silence Is Not Always Golden recent study published in the offered a first-time exploration of A-fib symptom perception, its impact on quality of life, and its relation to treatment strategies in older adults. The researchers found that patients aged 65 to 74 years reported more cardiac symptoms, and A-fib had a more significant impact on their quality of life compared to the older age groups. Adults aged 85 years and older were more likely to report no symptoms, and most of the reported symptoms were non–cardiac specific, including fatigue and light-headedness. “This study is key in furthering our understanding of A-fib symptoms across age groups and is unique in its inclusion of adults over 85 years of age,” Dr. Skolnick explains. Based on these findings, the researchers recommended that clinicians adopt a more patient-centered approach to managing individuals with A-fib who present with a range of non–cardiac-specific symptoms, and that management with rate or rhythm control needs to be tailored to the individual patient in a holistic manner. “Physicians should consider atrial fibrillation as a possible diagnosis for patients who present with non-cardiac symptoms such as dizziness.” Dr. Nina Blachman “The population is aging, and we expect to see more patients with atrial fibrillation in the coming years,” says Dr. Blachman. “Physicians should consider atrial fibrillation as a possible diagnosis for patients who present with non-cardiac symptoms such as dizziness.” On the Horizon: Digital Health Technologies As a first step, Dr. Skolnick, together with , are using novel cardiovascular digital health tools to identify undiagnosed A-fib in older adults. “Wearable devices, which contain optical photoplethysmography-based sensors and software algorithms may facilitate identifying older adults with undiagnosed A-fib,” Dr. Skolnick explains. In addition, the Cardiovascular Digital Health Laboratory , also led by Dr. Dodson, is planning and conducting clinical trials evaluating innovative digital solutions to improve population health through hypertension management, medication adherence, and arrhythmia monitoring. The team plans to scale remote cardiovascular health monitoring for patients, making it applicable to other projects in the future. Dr. Dodson notes that the ultimate goal of the laboratory is to enable knowledge sharing among physicians and researchers to help facilitate partnerships on future studies and improve patient care. Cardiology, Echocardiography Adam H. Skolnick, MD, is a master clinician educator and an associate professor of medicine. His research focuses on transesophageal echocardiography, aortic stenosis, acute coronary syndromes, and geriatric cardiology. Nina Blachman, MD, MHPE Nina Blachman, MD, MHPE, is an assistant professor of medicine, and director of the NYU Geriatric Medicine Fellowship Program. Her research focuses on geriatrics education and workforce issues, and she and Dr. Dodson are co-creators of the GeriKit app for geriatric assessment Findings Support Elective Paraesophageal Hernia Repair in Elderly Patients Surg Endo . 2022 Feb 36;1407-1413. Mortality following elective paraesophageal hernia (PEH) repair remains below 0.5 percent until age 80. . 2022 Feb 36;1407-1413. There is no difference in rates of sepsis, readmission, or return to OR between patients younger than 65 and those 65 and older. Mortality following elective paraesophageal hernia (PEH) repair remains below 0.5 percent until age 80, according to a recent publication in Surgical Endoscopy . The study, one of the largest to evaluate elective PEH repair in recent years, supports a shift from watchful waiting to operative repair for patients age 65 or older with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic PEHs. “Age by itself should not be a contraindication to surgery,” says , first author on the study and surgical director of the Assessing Outcomes by Age Utilizing data from the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database, Dr. Damani and colleagues identified over 12,000 patients who underwent elective PEH repair between 2015 and 2017, including 5,476 patients age 65 or older. A watchful waiting approach for patients in this age group was originally supported by a Markov Monte Carlo decision model , which indicated that elective repair would only shift to being the optimal treatment if the mortality rate for surgery dropped to 0.5 percent or below. “This data from 20 years ago continues to drive patient referrals for elective surgery of paraesophageal hernias today,” says Dr. Damani. “Watchful waiting can lead to a significant increase in hernia size, making surgery more technically challenging, or can lead to an acute volvulus requiring an emergency operation with higher morbidity.” “Age by itself should not be a contraindication to surgery.” With results from the new study suggesting that this threshold has been reached, Dr. Damani hopes more referring specialists will consider elective repair for elderly patients. “To put in perspective how far we have come, mortality for elective paraesophageal hernia repair falls between the mortality of gallbladder surgery, which is 0.3 percent, and that of colon resection, which is 0.9 percent,” says Dr. Damani. An Uncomplicated Recovery Dr. Damani also emphasizes that age does not impede the relatively quick and smooth recovery following minimally invasive PEH repair. For patients age 65 or older, no differences in return to OR or readmission were noted in the study, and length of stay only increased by a median of 0.5 days. “At our center, we have not needed to send a single patient in the last three years to a rehab facility because of this operation,” says Dr. Damani. NYU Langone Health is a high volume site for hiatal hernia repair, having performed 110 procedures over the last two years alone, Dr. Damani notes. VR Provides Precision View in Cranial Bypass Virtual reality (VR) is becoming an important tool in the field of neurosurgery, with applications to medical training and education, as well as in surgical planning and guidance. At NYU Langone Health, a team of , is piloting VR technology for preoperative planning of superficial temporal artery (STA)–to–middle cerebral artery (MCA) bypass. “VR is enabling surgeons to tailor approaches to a patient’s specific neurovascular anatomy using interactive 3D models that can be viewed in high resolution.” “VR is enabling surgeons to tailor approaches to a patient’s specific neurovascular anatomy using interactive 3D models that can be viewed in high resolution,” Dr. Nossek says. “These models have been used in STA-MCA bypass planning to achieve the minimum necessary craniotomy size for a precise bypass localization.” Precise Planning The complexity and intricate nature of STA-MCA bypass warrants precise preoperative planning to identify the appropriate STA donor and MCA recipient, Dr. Nossek explains. “We have to find the optimal location and size of the craniotomy to ensure a high patency rate, as well as low rates of surgical morbidity and mortality.” In contrast to conventional imaging, the VR technology renders 360-degree models of patient-specific anatomy from volumetric imaging, providing enhanced visualization of the spatial relationship within the targeted surgical anatomy and allowing the surgeon to view the patient’s anatomy in high resolution from any vantage point. Efficient Procedures Dr. Nossek and his team recently reported their early experience using the VR-based technology for preoperative planning of STA-MCA bypass. Caleb Rutledge, MD , an assistant professor of neurosurgery and director of cranial and vascular neurosurgery at , is a co-author on the study. From August 2020 to February 2022, 30 patients undergoing STA-MCA bypass were enrolled into two groups. In one group, a VR-based surgical planning platform was used to preoperatively plan the procedure. In the control group, the surgeon used conventional preoperative planning techniques. “The VR platform facilitated smaller and more precise craniotomies, allowing for an easier and more efficient anastomosis.” “The VR platform enabled the selection of the ideal vessel candidates for anastomosis and localization of the center of the craniotomy with respect to the anastomosis site,” Dr. Nossek says. “The platform facilitated smaller and more precise craniotomies, allowing for an easier and more efficient anastomosis.” Blueprint for the Future While these data are preliminary, Dr. Nossek and Dr. Rutledge are excited about the future of the technology and its many potential benefits, including the ability to be used as a tool for trainees to learn the surgical techniques. “For recipient vessel selection, the VR system facilitated the selection of the best potential donor and recipient, which might improve patency in larger-scale studies,” Dr. Nossek says. “From an educational perspective, it may be a useful tool for trainees to understand the vascular anatomy and relationships between potential donors and potential recipients.” Stiff-Person Syndrome: A Challenging Diagnosis Surface EMG showing co-contraction of agonist and antagonist muscles—a characteristic sign of SPS. A Multi-Tiered Approach Unmasks an Elusive Disorder A woman in her 60s was referred to Kiril Kiprovski, MD , a clinical associate professor of neurology, with severe stiffness and spasticity in her lower extremities. Her symptoms had first appeared 6 years earlier, she reported, and all treatments had been ineffective. A spine surgeon had diagnosed the patient with spinal stenosis and performed two decompression surgeries. Later, an orthopedic surgeon had performed tendon lengthening and decompression of the peroneal nerve in the left leg. Still, the woman remained unable to walk more than a few steps without stumbling. “This woman’s life was terribly limited by her illness. She’s excited about being able to do more.” At NYU Langone Health, Dr. Kripovski inspected the patient’s MRIs and saw no significant compression of the spinal cord. A physical exam, however, led the neurologist to suspect stiff-person syndrome (SPS)— a rare, progressive autoimmune disorder that affects 1 to 2 out of every million people The symptoms of SPS arise from the disruption of central nervous system pathways that normally inhibit muscle contractions. “Instead of the agonist muscle contracting and the antagonist relaxing, both muscles are activated at the same time,” Dr. Kiprovski explains. Although the syndrome’s etiology is uncertain, it is usually accompanied by elevated levels of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies. However, anti-GAD antibodies can also be associated with autoimmune diabetes mellitus. To confirm his clinical impression, Dr. Kripovski ordered bloodwork and performed surface electromyography, both of which showed concerning signs of SPS. After completing the diagnosis, he prescribed clonazepam, a standard treatment. Within weeks, the woman’s mobility increased significantly. In hopes of improving it further, she was recently started on intravenous immunoglobulin, which has been shown to reduce symptoms in some patients. “This woman’s life was terribly limited by her illness,” Dr. Kiprovski says. “She’s excited about being able to do more. Her whole family’s excited about it. And, of course, I’m excited, too.” Ruling Out a Spinal Etiology Preoperative MRIs of the patient’s cervical spine. Because the signs and symptoms of stiff-person syndrome (SPS) overlap with those of several other disorders, diagnosis requires multiple steps. The first is a detailed medical history and physical exam. Examination of pre- and postoperative imaging of the patient’s cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine revealed nothing that would explain the severe impairments to her gait. Testing for Antibodies Results from the patient’s bloodwork. Between 70 to 80 percent of people with SPS have glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies, so the patient’s extremely high levels were suggestive of the disorder. Because such antibodies are also associated with several other autoimmune disorders, however, their presence alone was insufficient for a diagnosis. There is no single test that is dispositive for SPS. Scanning for Telltale Muscle Contractions Readings from the patient’s needle EMG tests. During ankle dorsiflexion and plantar flexion, the patient’s electromyography (EMG) showed co-contraction of agonist and antagonist muscles—a characteristic sign of SPS. Combined with her elevated anti-GAD antibody levels, this finding confirmed the diagnosis. Neuromuscular Medicine, Neurology Kiril Kiprovski, MD, is a clinical associate professor of neurology and director of the Division of Neuromuscular Medicine. Making the Case for Ambulatory Palliative Care in Advanced Kidney Disease Research supports that introducing ambulatory services in the U.S. would benefit patients and caregivers. Addressing Hearing Loss as a Barrier to Care New research explores if personal amplification devices improve the quality of patient care and patient experience. Rethinking Diabetes Prevention in Older Adults Diabetes risk may be modifiable through healthy lifestyle habits , and interventions for adults with prediabetes have been shown to be effective. Still, few individuals aged 65 years and older at risk for type 2 diabetes participate in evidence-based programs to reduce their risk. One barrier may be the in-person model for delivering diabetes prevention care, according to geriatric specialists at NYU Langone Health. They are leading an ongoing trial, the BRInging the Diabetes Prevention Program to GEriatric Populations (BRIDGE) study, to assess an alternative, telehealth-based Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) tailored for older adults with prediabetes. “As of 2018, Medicare reimburses for provision of a CDC-approved diabetes prevention program curriculum delivered in-person,” says Emily Johnston, PhD, MPH , a research assistant professor of medicine. “However, in-person DPPs are usually offered only at hospitals, YMCAs, and health departments, limiting accessibility for older adults.” “In-person DPPs are usually offered only at hospitals, YMCAs, and health departments, limiting accessibility for older adults.” “Offering an online version could be an innovative way to extend the reach of the DPPs to low-income seniors and other marginalized groups,” says . “Additionally, the online format could reduce the cost for implementing and administering the program.” While some online DPPs are available, many are cost-prohibitive and not tailored to the unique needs of older adults. The BRIDGE Study In addition to comparing the effectiveness of two different strategies for delivering a tailored DPP to older adults with prediabetes, the BRIDGE study is also examining the feasibility of delivering either approach as a primary care integrated program. NYU Langone researchers are recruiting patients and randomizing them to a 12-month DPP either delivered via videoconferencing or traditional, in-person programming. Participants are men and women with prediabetes who are 65 years and older and have a body mass index (BMI) within the overweight or obesity range. The primary outcomes are six-month weight loss (effectiveness) and program participation (feasibility). Based on data from a preliminary pilot study , videoconferencing appears to be a feasible and acceptable way to administer a DPP to older adults, says Dr. Chodosh. “Providing DPP via videoconferencing resulted in high attendance and participant retention, and we observed a significant weight change…over the 6-week intervention period.” “Providing DPP via videoconferencing resulted in high attendance and participant retention, and we observed a significant weight change of 2.9 percent at a rate of 0.2 to 0.5 kilograms per week over the 6-week intervention period.” Findings of this pilot , led by nutritional epidemiologist Jeannette M. Beasley, PhD, MPH , helped the team to adapt the DPP to meet the individual needs of older adults with prediabetes, including modifications for those with reduced hearing and visual acuity. In the future, the team believes the results of BRIDGE could be used to inform best practices that could potentially reach more than 26 million older adults with prediabetes in hospital, community-based, and rural settings. Informing Policy and Best Practices During the COVID-19 pandemic, some virtual preventive care services were covered by Medicare. Dr. Johnston hopes that positive results from BRIDGE will encourage policymakers to enact permanent reimbursement for virtual DPP services. “Our adapted care model is in keeping with the current CDC-approved DPP curriculum, but it is enhanced for older adults,” Dr. Johnston explains. “We hope this research will inform best practices for the delivery of an engaging and effective program to reduce diabetes risk that is accessible to older adults.” Diabetes, Endocrinology, Nutrition Emily Johnston, PhD, MPH, RDN, is a dietitian, certified diabetes care and education specialist, and research assistant professor of medicine. Her research focuses on nutrition and aging, specifically the development of programs to help healthcare providers optimize the delivery of nutrition and preventive care among older adults. We offer care at three locations in Manhattan. 646-754-7098 Executive physicals at NYU Langone provide convenient annual health examinations tailored to each executive’s medical needs. We offer the highest-quality care to assure privacy and comfort, with limited disruption to your busy schedule. An executive physical may be obtained at one of the following conveniently located facilities in NYU Langone’s network: , in the Financial District; and the , both in Midtown. Our concierge team also coordinates your itinerary at the selected location and sends you an electronic notification of the exam date, location and appointment instruction. We offer three packages, which are discussed with you in detail when speaking with our concierge team. On the day of your exam, when you arrive at your selected appointment location, you are greeted by our executive physical program staff. For your convenience, our on-site concierge escorts you through the facility throughout your visit. You meet with NYU Langone’s board-certified physicians, who perform a comprehensive medical history and physical exam. After your visit, you connect directly with your doctor to discuss your results. At that time, your doctor may refer you for additional testing or appointments. Our concierge team will assist with coordinating any additional appointments. With our integrated electronic medical record system, you can also send secure messages to your doctor, access your personalized medical record, and refill prescriptions To learn more about executive physicals at NYU Langone, please call 646-754-7098. Transcatheter Management of a Rare Case of Congenital LV to CS Fistula Postnatal transthoracic echocardiogram shows a fistula between the base of the LV and CS with associated dilation of the CS, right atrium, and right ventricle. A Rare Congenital Heart Defect Congenital left ventricle (LV) to coronary sinus (CS) fistula is a rare entity that can occur either in isolation or in conjunction with other heart defects. With only six prior case reports in the literature, a carefully planned intervention leveraging advanced catheter techniques and intraprocedural imaging is needed to ensure optimal outcomes. In September 2019, when a young male infant was delivered at term to a 34-year mother, cardiac imaging revealed the congenital LV to CS fistula. In addition to the shunt from the fistula, there was another problem. “The baseline electrocardiogram findings were notable for a Wolff-Parkinson-White pattern,” explains , the Andrall E. Pearson Professor of Pediatric Cardiology and director of the Division of Pediatric Cardiology at NYU Langone Health. “This is the first case report that describes an association of the LV-CS fistula with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.” “This is the first case report that describes an association of the LV-CS fistula with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.” Postnatally, refractory supraventricular tachycardia consistent with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome required therapy with several anti-arrhythmic drugs. A Very Challenging Procedure After discussions among the care team, it was apparent that surgical intervention posed unacceptable risk, as the high-pressure thin-wall fistulous connection located deep and posteriorly behind the heart would be nearly impossible to access surgically. “We all agreed that a percutaneous approach would be preferable,” notes interventional cardiologist Pediatric Catheterization Laboratory . When signs of high-volume heart failure emerged, Dr. Argilla and his partner, pediatric interventional cardiologist , made the decision to intervene early, but the risks were high. The challenge with infants is their small vessels and heart chambers, which limits the size and manipulation of catheters, adds Dr. Argilla. For this procedure, there was a need to avoid implanting a device that would obstruct future routes to the accessory pathway during a subsequent electrophysiology ablation, performed by Dr. Cecchin. The end result was a marathon catheterization, which involved the surgical team attempting three different approaches to closing the fistula before successfully implanting the device. A Successful Recovery Remarkably, following the successful catheter device closure of the LV to CS fistula on day 12 of life, the patient later underwent successful ablation of the accessory pathway. “This was the most challenging procedure we’ve done—and we’re very happy to report an excellent post-procedural result,” says Dr. Argilla, “Two years later, when we met Max again, he presented as a healthy and energetic toddler.” “This was the most challenging procedure we’ve done—and we’re very happy to report an excellent post-procedural result.” Intracardiac Anatomy Confirmed on MRI Cardiac imaging shows the presence of a fistula from the base of the LV to the right atrium via the CS with an approximately 5:1 shunt. The patient underwent electrophysiologic and cardiac catheterization studies on day 4 of life. The transesophageal electrophysiology study showed a moderate risk accessory pathway with the shortest pre-excited RR interval of 260 ms, antegrade effective refractory period of the accessory pathway of 270 ms, and no inducible atrial fibrillation. Angiography showed an LV to CS fistula. Successful Catheter Device Closure An X-ray showing placement of the 8 mm Amplatzer Vascular Plug II device. The patient underwent device occlusion of the fistulous connection of the CS diverticulum to the LV on day of life 12. Each time a catheter or sheath was advanced across the CS orifice of the fistula, evidence of pre-excitation on the cardiac monitor ECG disappeared. Post-procedure transthoracic echocardiogram showed that the device was well positioned and there was no residual shunt. Successful Radiofrequency Ablation of the Accessory Pathway Electrocardiogram showing delta wave mapping. The patient was noted to have an accessory pathway in the CS diverticulum. Delta wave mapping was performed primarily during sinus rhythm.The earliest atrial electrogram was noted at -26 msec. Successful radiofrequency ablation of the accessory pathway was performed. Michael Argilla, MD, is a clinical associate professor of pediatrics and director of the Pediatric Catheterization Laboratory. His research interests include congenital heart defects in children and adults. Frank Cecchin, MD, is the Andrall E. Pearson Professor of Pediatric Cardiology, a professor of medicine, and director of the Division of Pediatric Cardiology. His research interests include abnormal arrhythmias and congenital heart defects in children. Presenters at the 2023 ACC Scientific Sessions On March 4-6, 2023, NYU Langone Heart’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American College of Cardiology 2023 Scientific Sessions in New Orleans Below are just a few of the notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year ( see the complete list of NYU Langone presenters and events Saturday, March 4 Examining Risk Factors Related to Cardiac Rehabilitation Cessation Among Heart Transplant Recipients Session 1247 : Prevention & Health Promotion – Cardiac Rehabilitation 2 NYU Langone Authors , Medical Director, Heart Transplant Program; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 10:45–11:30 am Sunday, March 5 Building Electronic Tools To Enhance And Reinforce Cardiovascular Recommendations for Heart Failure (BETTER CARE-HF): A Pragmatic, Cluster-randomized Trial Comparing Two Ambulatory Clinical Decision Support Tools Session 406 : Late Breaking Clinical Trials III NYU Langone Author , Clinical Instructor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 9:45–9:55 am Respective & Combined Contributions of Left & Right Ventricular Function for the Development of Heart Failure Symptoms & Relevant Clinical Outcomes: A Study of 10,082 Patients from the CIROC Registry Session 1067 : A Look Ahead – Multimodality Imaging for Prognosis Juan Gaztanaga, MD , Director, Advanced Cardiac Imaging, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island 4:00–4:10 pm Monday, March 6 Findings from The American Heart Association Cardiometabolic Health Strategically Focused Research Network Session 1739 : Prevention and Health Promotion: Diabetes and Cardiometabolic Disease Michael S. Garshick, MD , Assistant Professor, Director of the Cardio-Rheumatology Program, NYU Langone What Do the Cardiogenic Shock Trials Tell Us and How Close Are We to Creating Guidelines in Management? Session 751 : Cardiogenic Shock: Advances, Opportunities, & Controversies , Director, Interventional Cardiology, Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory, NYU Langone : 1:34–1:42 pm Existing Chest CTs Inform Risk of Heart Attack or Death Following Surgery To determine the risk for heart attack or death following major surgery, cardiac tests are frequently recommended, causing delays and driving up healthcare costs. Now, investigators at NYU Langone Health report that patients’ existing chest CT scans, captured months earlier and for unrelated reasons, can be used to estimate these risks. In their study, recently presented at the annual conference of the American College of Cardiology, the researchers report that patients with a greater buildup of calcified plaque as visualized by CT have a higher chance of developing major adverse cardiac events (MACE) following several kinds of surgeries. Additionally, the team explored whether physicians who had no formal training in imaging could identify coronary calcium well enough on these preexisting tests to make accurate predictions and potentially skip additional cardiac testing. “Our coronary calcium assessment is easy to use and requires minimal training, and so offers a cost-effective tool that can be implemented in any medical practice.” Robert M. Donnino, MD “Our coronary calcium assessment is easy to use and requires minimal training, and so offers a cost-effective tool that can be implemented in any medical practice,” says study co-senior author and cardiologist Using Existing Imaging to Predict Risk For the study, the researchers accessed data from the electronic health record of 2,650 men and women age 45 and older who had surgery unrelated to the heart between January 2016 and September 2020 at NYU Langone inpatient locations. All the patients whose records were used also had a general CT scan of their chests no more than a year before their surgical operations. Those with death or heart attack during the hospitalization for surgery were then identified. Next, four members of the team who had no formal training in CT interpretation completed a 90-minute training session in which they learned to estimate coronary calcium severity from the imaging. In the pragmatic scoring system used, plaque buildup in each of the three major coronary arteries was rated on a three-point scale ranging from “absent” to “severe.” The scores were then combined to a final grade ranging from 0 to 9. “Pragmatic approaches to risk stratification before surgery can potentially improve care.” According to the results, patients with scores from 0 to 2 had a less than 4 percent risk of MACE; those with scores from 3 to 5 had an 8 percent risk; and those with scores from 6 to 9 had a 13 percent risk. In addition, the calcium estimates were consistent among the physicians, suggesting that the rating system was reliable. “Pragmatic approaches to risk stratification before surgery can potentially improve care,” says study co-senior author and interventional cardiologist . “Future studies will need to go beyond prediction to develop new strategies to prevent and treat adverse cardiac events after surgery.” Cardiology, Echocardiography, Cardiac Imaging Robert M. Donnino, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and a faculty member in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. His research interests focus on multi-modality cardiac imaging and the application of cardiac imaging to clinical care. Interventional Cardiology, Cardiology Nathaniel R. Smilowitz, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and a faculty member in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. His research interests include myocardial infarction, coronary artery disease, MINOCA, and microvascular disease. Low-Lipid Disorders: Rare, Yet Revealing, Metabolic Conditions Cindy L. Bredefeld, DO, is a clinician and trial director with a focus on diabetes and lipid disorders. Here, she discusses hypobetalipoproteinemia disorders—conditions with low or absent lipid levels, which impair the normal absorption and transport of fats and fat-soluble vitamins. Working with Mahmood Hussain, PhD, Dr. Bredefeld has helped to create a classification system for these disorders, and advocates for awareness and research through the Abetalipoproteinemia and Related Disorders Foundation. Your lipid disorders research includes low lipid conditions—less recognized than hyperlipidemia, which leads to coronary artery disease. Describe these less common disorders. Dr. Bredefeld: Low-lipid disorders are collectively recognized as familial hypobetalipoproteinemia. They are monogenic, with a number of known genetic mutations that determine the phenotype and disease progression. Recently, Dr. Hussain and I co-authored a consensus guidance that classifies these disorders into two categories. Class II disorders are due to enhanced catabolism of lipoproteins and are typically asymptomatic; in fact, these mutations can be beneficial in preventing cardiovascular disease. On the other hand, class I conditions—including abetalipoproteinemia, hypobetalipoproteinemia, and chylomicron retention disease—are severe. They inhibit the assembly and secretion of lipoproteins, so lipids become trapped in the liver and intestine leading to symptoms of steatosis and fat malabsorption. Without fat-soluble vitamins reaching target tissues, patients often suffer from blindness, peripheral neuropathy, and hemorrhage. Advancing Diagnosis, Treatment and Research How are low-lipid disorders diagnosed and treated in children or adults? These are ultra-rare disorders that are usually identified after an arduous diagnostic journey. Parents may notice symptoms of fat malabsorption—their babies do better when they restrict fats, such as in breast milk. A pediatric gastroenterologist might order a workup for malabsorption. If a lipid panel is obtained during this evaluation, it clinches the diagnosis. Genetic testing can confirm the diagnosis. Patients require lifelong management with megadoses of fat-soluble vitamins. Additionally, there are important dietary concerns; fats must be restricted to just five—the amount in one large egg—to 15 grams per day. “These are ultra-rare disorders that are usually identified after an arduous diagnostic journey.” Cindy L. Bredefeld, DO You helped launch the Abetalipoproteinemia and Related Disorders Foundation. What is the foundation doing to advance understanding of these disorders? First and foremost, we are engaged in advocacy to increase awareness. There is a general lack of understanding regarding the management of these disorders, particularly among insurance companies. They can be reluctant to cover the cost of these “vitamins”—which can average $800 per month out of pocket—because they’re not seen as the critical treatments they are. Insurers may not understand that a baby could hemorrhage, or that an adult patient could develop severe neuropathy or blindness. We have provided letters of medical support for physicians to submit to insurers. Dr. Hussain, the foundation’s president, is a basic researcher while I’m on the clinical side. We integrate the two and bring patients, caregivers, physicians and researchers together to meet an unmet clinical need for these rare disorders. We have assembled an international forum across seven countries to create an expert consensus around the diagnosis and management of hypobetalipoproteinemia. Are you also involved with research on the other side of lipid disorders, hyperlipidemia? Yes. Some of the research in hypolipidemia is informing our understanding of how to manage hyperlipidemia. Several of the genes implicated in class II hypolipidemia have inspired currently available treatments for disorders on the opposite side of the spectrum, such as familial hypercholesterolemia, but also for patients with coronary artery disease to help reduce their risk of cardiac events. I am the principal investigator for a clinical trial investigating ANPTL3 monoclonal antibody for severe hypertriglyceridemia, a common lipid condition—another example of how research in rarer disorders can benefit the larger patient population. Transferring Insights to More Common Conditions Why do you feel it’s so important to support research and treatment of these rare diseases? As I mentioned, understanding low lipids can directly inform treatment advances for hyperlipidemia, which is highly prevalent. In addition, for patients impacted by hypolipidemia, we’re learning more about the mechanisms of disease and potential treatment pathways. Through the foundation, we’re developing a biobank and patient registry to understand the natural history of these disorders. Another initiative is to discover novel vectors that could more efficiently deliver high-dose vitamins to patients with class I hypolipidemias. These studies could also help inform treatment of other, more commonly seen malabsorption disorders. Cindy Bredefeld, DO, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Medicine and the director of clinical trials within the Division of Endocrinology. Her clinical focus is the diagnosis and management of type 1 and type 2 diabetes, as well as lipid disorders. Dual Targeting Approach Overcomes Sensitization in Heart Transplantation Marlena Habal, MD Patients sensitized to circulating human leukocyte antigen (HLA) in need of a heart transplant face prolonged wait times, an elevated risk of dying while waiting, and they may not be listed at all , a heart failure specialist in NYU Langone Health’s , is engaged in translational research to understand the immunological challenges in thoracic transplant and how they can be overcome to desensitize patients. Her research group has developed a protocol to kill bone marrow plasma cells, including those that secrete HLA-specific IgG antibodies in sensitized patients. The has successfully performed one heart transplant using this protocol, and a patient awaiting a lung transplant will begin treatment in a few weeks. The Demand for Desensitization Dr. Habal, your work is focused primarily on desensitizing heart transplant patients. Is the prevalence of HLA sensitization increasing in these patients? If so, what are the reasons? Dr. Habal: When a heart failure patient is placed on the organ donor list, they may have been rejected many times before at various sites. Our goal is to see if we can get them ready for transplant by treating them with therapies that target the cells making the antibodies that can attack the donor organ. Our research is focused on providing a cellular description of what is happening. “[We are] building a platform to better understand the underlying immunobiology so that in the future we can develop a precision protocol for each patient.” The challenge is these patients are becoming more complex. Many of them have had previous surgeries, which come with blood transfusions. This includes mechanical circulatory support, most commonly left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) Millennials are the first group of adults that have survived complex congenital heart disease and received homografts for repair. That foreign tissue has often been there for 20 or 30 years causing extremely high levels of these antibodies—it’s rare that we can treat these patients. Pregnancy is the most common sensitizing event, and why women are affected disproportionately. If you have a patient who’s had three previous pregnancies, an LVAD, and multiple blood transfusions, suddenly you can get very high levels of HLA antibodies. Immune Response to Foreign Human Leukocyte Antigen Can you briefly describe how the immune response works in HLA sensitization and what is unique about your approach to desensitization? Exposure to foreign HLA can initiate a complex set of immune reactions which results in a short-term “effector response”—driven by B cells and short-lived antibody-secreting cells, the production of long-lived bone marrow plasma cells that sustain antibody secretion over decades, and the establishment of B and T cell memory . As a result, HLA antibodies are either detectable or, in the absence of detectable HLA antibodies, the presence of cellular memory exists. “The core rationale for our protocol is to target not only the plasma cells but also prohibit the B cells from getting out of control.” The problem is the immune system is smart; it evolves. The cells that become plasma cells—B cells—will begin multiplying again. This is why we added a second agent, a costimulation blockade, to mitigate this response. How do you test for HLA antibodies? Are there any particular signals that you look for in those assays? HLA antibody detection is most commonly done using the Luminex single antigen bead assay. What I’m interested in is how high the antibody levels are, and this requires a bit more work. As an indirect measure of antibody levels, we work with an immunogeneticist to perform antibody titrations until we determine that the antibodies no longer exist. This helps us gauge how many cycles of desensitization will be needed. Designing and Implementing the Protocol What is the core framework for your desensitization protocol and how do you adapt it for different patients? Therapeutic decision-making must consider the patient’s specific needs. My group is building a platform to better understand the underlying immunobiology so that in the future we can develop a precision protocol for each patient. The core rationale for our protocol is to target not only the plasma cells but also prohibit the B cells from getting out of control. We use a multi-drug regimen to target both arms of the immune response; this has been successful in allowing us to transplant several highly sensitized patients. “Our strategies will continue to focus on targeting different ‘layers’ of the immune response.” A transient proteasome inhibitor (multiple myeloma drugs bortezomib or carfilzomib) is used to deplete plasma cells, combined with maintenance costimulation blockade with belatacept—a high-affinity variant of CTLA-4-Ig that limits T cell–B cell crosstalk—to prevent the generation of new antibody-secreting cells. Any closing thoughts about the future of heart transplant and desensitization? As we’ve discussed, drug repurposing holds promise for precision-based desensitization; clinical trials are ongoing of daratumumab and other immunomodulatory therapies. Our strategies will continue to focus on targeting different “layers” of the immune response. Here at NYU Langone, clinicians and scientists work in close collaboration to evaluate each case and develop precision strategies. Through an iterative and integrative approach, we hope to refine our protocols and use these promising tools and treatments to their full potential. Marlena Habal, MD, is a heart failure specialist in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. Her translational research focuses on understanding the immunological challenges in thoracic transplant and how they can be overcome to desensitize patients and prepare them for transplant. Adolescent Obesity: Weight Loss and Bariatric Surgery , a board-certified pediatric surgeon who specializes in bariatric surgery, discusses the role of surgery in adolescents with obesity—a highly prevalent condition that has more than tripled in the past three decades. In the wake of the pandemic, anxiety and stress have also hindered efforts to address obesity. Working with a multidisciplinary team, Dr. Tashiro gives teens the tools they need to achieve and maintain a healthy weight through the Adolescent Healthy Weight Program, where he serves as surgical director Impact of the Pandemic on Obesity Trends How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected weight management and care of adolescents with obesity? Dr. Tashiro: According to a recent study from the CDC , the rate of increase in children and teens’ body mass index (BMI) approximately doubled in 2020—obesity was an epidemic already, but the pandemic has made it much worse. With schools closed and gym classes cancelled, kids lost their normal routine. Although this was necessary for public health, we don’t talk enough about the importance of a structured school day for children—their entire world involves interacting with friends, and if you take that away, and only put them in front of a screen, it’s not the same. Weight Management Care for Youth The Adolescent Healthy Weight Program at NYU Langone provides a care experience with unique benefits to young patients. Can you tell us more about it? There are many weight loss programs available to patients, but most surgical procedures are not performed by pediatric surgeons subspecialized in bariatric surgery. , all of our pediatric patients receive specialized care from initial consultation through to treatment and follow-up. We employ a multidisciplinary care team, including pediatric obesity medical specialists, nutritionists, psychologists, social workers, and subspecialized pediatric surgeons. We ensure that our patients are treated as teenagers—15-year-olds should not be talked to and treated the same way as adults. A children’s hospital can offer a unique care experience for teens. Our program is accredited by the Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program as a comprehensive center providing high-quality, patient-centered care. The Proven Benefits of Surgery There is accumulating evidence suggesting that bariatric surgery is safe and beneficial for teens with obesity. Have you published any recent research on this topic? We recently published the results of a retrospective analysis evaluating the impact of parental history of bariatric surgery , as well as age at time of operation, on adolescents who underwent laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. Interestingly, when all patients were compared by age at operation, either over the age of 16 or under, there were few differences in outcomes. Our results showed that patient age should not be a barrier to weight loss surgery, especially among patients with a parental history of obesity. By intervening at a younger age, the long-term metabolic effects of obesity may be reduced. Giving Surgery Careful Thought What are your considerations when counseling patients about potential weight loss surgery? Achieving a healthy weight can be challenging, especially for young people who have experienced significant weight gain that is affecting their physical and mental health. All teens in our program start with medical weight loss interventions. If those efforts prove unsuccessful, we may recommend surgery. This process starts with an evaluation by a psychologist, who determines if the teen is fit for the procedure. We want to ensure the teen fully understands how it will impact their life and is committed to making lifelong changes to maintain weight loss. We provide gastric sleeve surgery, also known as sleeve gastrectomy, for teens aged 13 to 17 who have a BMI of 40 or higher, or a BMI of 35 or higher and at least one accompanying risk factor, such as diabetes. This procedure reduces the size of the stomach, which helps teens eat less and feel full faster. Research shows that bariatric surgery helps teenagers lower their BMI and reverse or significantly reduce their risk of type 2 diabetes and heart disease. By reducing the risk of these obesity-related disorders earlier in life, surgical treatment can help prevent illness in teens and lead to better health as adults. Reaching More Patients What are your future plans for program expansion? We plan to expand our coverage area for outpatient visits to include more of the New York metropolitan area as it’s easier for patients if they don’t have to travel so far. We also plan to provide educational materials for all pediatricians in the tri-state area. Many pediatricians don’t know bariatric surgery is a safe and effective option for adolescents with obesity. Jun Tashiro, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor of surgery and surgical director of the Adolescent Healthy Weight Program at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. He specializes in performing minimally invasive bariatric surgery in children and adolescents with obesity. Amplifying the Impact of Nuclear Cardiology Beyond Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease Nuclear cardiologist , is medical director of outpatient clinical cardiology and director of nuclear cardiology at NYU Langone Health. In January 2024, Dr. Phillips stepped into the role of president of the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology (ASNC), bringing with him a wealth of leadership experience from his more than 15 years at NYU Langone. Here, Dr. Phillips shares his goals as president—with a top priority being equitable access to imaging education—and looks ahead as expanding applications, hybrid techniques, and artificial intelligence (AI) create shifting landscapes in the field. Drawn to the Field Congratulations on your new position leading the ASNC. Reflecting on your training, what drew you to the field and prepared you for this role? Dr. Phillips: When I was doing my cardiology fellowship, I was attracted to nuclear cardiology for its unique role in patient evaluation and management. At that time, the major way to look for ischemic heart disease using a noninvasive approach was nuclear stress testing. Nuclear stress tests are one of the most common diagnostic tests performed in the United States, especially as people mature in years. As I realized the importance of the interplay between diagnosis, treatment, and imaging, over time I began to focus more on nuclear cardiology. Then, when I joined NYU Langone in 2008, the mentorship I received as an early career attending was foundational in getting me even more involved in the field. NYU Langone has a long history of leadership in imaging, including multiple areas of cardiac imaging, with a former director of nuclear cardiology, Dr. Jennifer Mieres, having served as the national president of ASNC in 2009. I’ve been lucky to be very supported over these last 15 years and to have this current opportunity as president. New Paradigm of Imaging Education What do you see as the key objectives for the organization during your term? The ASNC is made up of cardiologists at every level of experience, from trainees in cardiovascular disease to physicians who have been in practice for many years. Although they are a diverse group, one key commonality is that all nuclear cardiology clinicians are still learning. One of the most exciting parts of focusing on nuclear cardiology today is the rapidly expanding knowledge and techniques in the field. We want every specialist in nuclear cardiology to be able to learn the latest skills and learn them in a way that can readily be translated into patient care. So one of my major priorities is changing the paradigm of imaging education. To accomplish this, we want to build a cloud-based, hands-on imaging curriculum. “One of my major priorities is changing the paradigm of imaging education. To accomplish this, we want to build a cloud-based, hands-on imaging curriculum.” We know that a trainee in one program might not have the same imaging education opportunities as someone in a similar program elsewhere in the country. Our goal is to help raise the bar for all trainees by providing resources that can be integrated into any training program in the country. What this allows us to do is make sure we have a standard where everyone is looking at an image in the same way—that translates into optimization of patient-centric clinical care. This will also be helpful in continuing education. Nuclear cardiology techniques and procedures are exploding, and we’re seeing new disease states where nuclear cardiology is going to be key in diagnosis and treatment. For patient care, we want to make sure that the physicians already involved in nuclear cardiology have the opportunities to learn new skills, imaging techniques, and lab modernization. Strategic Plan for Artificial Intelligence What is your vision for the role of AI in nuclear cardiology? AI is a tremendously hot topic. One of the first initiatives that I launched at the beginning of this year was the creation of a task force on AI and machine learning and their impact in nuclear cardiology. When considering AI in imaging specifically, we’ve learned that with focused attention we can significantly improve the ability of AI to detect small details in an image and assist with diagnoses. But the new wave will be using AI to better determine how a test result can impact patient care. The ability to utilize the large volume of data available in a patient’s electronic medical record as well as the pixel-level data of cardiac imaging is going to open up knowledge that has not existed previously. With thoughtful investment in AI technologies, I’m confident we’ll expand our ability to offer high-quality care. Over the next year, my goal for the task force is to create a strategic plan for how we move forward in nuclear cardiology using the power of AI and machine learning. Expanding the Impact Can you tell us more about how nuclear cardiology techniques are expanding into other disease states? What we’ve found through a lot of research, including research by colleagues here at NYU Langone, is that for many patients, chest pain is caused by conditions such as microvascular disease, and that nuclear cardiology can be key to making this diagnosis. “For many patients, chest pain is caused by conditions such as microvascular disease. Nuclear cardiology can be key to making this diagnosis.” Another disease state where we’re seeing tremendous diagnostic progress utilizing nuclear cardiology is in the evaluation of cardiac amyloidosis. Years ago, this disease was thought to be much rarer, but thanks to the application of nuclear cardiology techniques, diagnoses have increased tremendously—including here at NYU Langone, where we have a dedicated Amyloidosis Program Similarly, our management of sarcoidosis has seen significant growth, with nuclear cardiology playing a key role both in diagnosis and monitoring response to treatment. Finally, there’s been notable progress in the evaluation of cardiac infections, such as endocarditis, and the ability to use nuclear techniques to make a diagnosis where it might otherwise be unclear. Emergence of Hybrid Techniques How do you see the role of nuclear cardiology expanding over the next 5 to 10 years? As we look to the future, I think we’re going to see multimodality imaging techniques grow, with nuclear cardiology playing a major role. As we look to the future, I think we’re going to see multimodality imaging techniques grow, with nuclear cardiology playing a major role.” We’re seeing a lot of focus on hybrid imaging already. One of the areas of greatest progress is in the evaluation of coronary calcium while at the same time looking at nuclear perfusion. When you combine the two techniques, it provides an extremely informative window into a patient’s disease state, with simultaneous functional and anatomic data. I’m excited to see other hybrid approaches be developed. Lawrence Phillips, MD, is the medical director of outpatient clinical cardiology, director of nuclear cardiology, and assistant clinical director for strategic affairs in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. A comprehensive cardiologist, he treats patients across the heart disease spectrum, including early prevention, ischemic heart disease, arrhythmias, and valve disease. His research focuses on using cardiac imaging for diagnosing heart disease and monitoring response to tailored therapies. Second Trimester TAVR Paves the Way for a Safe Pregnancy & Delivery Imaging showing placement of the implanted valve. TAVR Expertise Treats a High-Risk Pregnancy A woman’s advanced aortic stenosis detected during pregnancy was successfully treated with transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) by specialists at NYU Langone Health. The maternal-fetal medicine team, led by , a nationally renowned expert in high-risk pregnancies, quickly identified the case to be more severe than initially described at referral, permitting time for a well-planned second-trimester procedure. “It was remarkable from my perspective as an obstetrician to see how quickly she responded to the TAVR. It was pretty magic.” “It was remarkable from my perspective as an obstetrician to see how quickly she responded to the TAVR,” says Dr. Roman. “It was pretty magic.” Aortic stenosis is one of the more feared cardiac abnormalities during pregnancy, notes Dr. Roman. The impairment makes it difficult for the body to adjust to the increases in heart rate and blood volume necessary to support a growing fetus. With these changes largely occurring in the last three months of pregnancy, timing TAVR for the second trimester helped minimize the risk of the mother experiencing cardiac failure. “While TAVR during pregnancy has not yet been studied, we weighed the risk and benefits with mom and offered the procedure as a lower-risk option compared to surgery.” Dual-trained in cardiac surgery and interventional cardiology, , performed the TAVR. Despite the unique case, he emphasizes the straightforward nature of the procedure itself due to his team’s extensive experience with advanced transcatheter technology. “While TAVR during pregnancy has not yet been studied, we weighed the risk and benefits with mom and offered the procedure as a lower-risk option to fetus and mom compared to surgery,” says Dr. Williams. Exercise Intolerance: An Early Warning Sign Chest CT angiography revealing the patient’s advanced aortic stenosis. A 38-year-old pregnant female was referred to maternal-fetal medicine specialists at NYU Langone for care of her critical aortic stenosis. Born with a bicuspid aortic valve and asymptomatic throughout her life, the patient experienced exercise intolerance early during pregnancy. TAVR at 21 Weeks The patient’s multidisciplinary care team offered TAVR as a lower-risk alternative to open heart surgery. The procedure was performed while the patient was 21 weeks pregnant, with local anesthesia and minimal radiation to the fetus, and the patient was discharged the following day. A Healthy Mom and Newborn The patient and newborn following delivery. PHOTO: Bella Baby Photography While not required, the patient elected for cesarean delivery, with a team in place monitoring her heart condition. The patient recovered well from the birth, and she and the baby were discharged without any complications. Ashley S. Roman, MD, is the Silverman Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, vice chair for clinical affairs—obstetrics and gynecology, and service chief of obstetrics. Her research interests include biomarkers for preterm birth and the impact of omega-3 fatty acids on pregnancy outcomes. Cardiac Surgery, Interventional Cardiology Mathew R. Williams, MD, is an associate professor of cardiothoracic surgery, director of the Heart Valve Center, chief of the Division of Adult Cardiac Surgery at NYU Langone Hospital, and co-director of NYU Langone Heart. He specializes in the treatment of heart valve disease using minimally invasive procedures and advanced transcatheter approaches. Presenters at the 2023 AHA Scientific Sessions NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons join international colleagues in Philadelphia, November 10–13. AI Refines QTc Interval Estimation in Atrial Fibrillation New AI-driven QTc algorithm could generate clinically useful estimations. Gaining Long-Term Perspective on Coronary Disease Management Experts at NYU Langone Health play a key role in the landmark ISCHEMIA-EXTEND trial. Leadless Pacemakers Promise to Shape Future of AV Synchrony The small, self-contained devices are having a transformational effect on the lives of patients with complex arrhythmias. Femoral Artery Homograft Relieves Coronary Stenosis in Young Adult with CHD Surgical team takes a unique approach for a patient with transposition of the great arteries. Offering Every Option for Fibroid Care Holistic care from a dedicated center benefits all patients—including those who have failed prior treatment. Achieving Mastery in Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery A renowned leader advances excellence and innovation in his field. Guiding Patients Through Oocyte Cryopreservation Infertility specialist Dr. James Grifo discusses advances in elective egg freezing and practices for holistic care. Teaching Endocrinology to Future Generations , an assistant professor of medicine and medical director of NYU Langone Diabetes and Endocrine Associates, dedicates a large part of her career to education. As content director for NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s endocrine module, she is helping to design new training initiatives that adopt innovative materials, a more case-based model, and stronger connections between lectures and clinical rotations. Here, Dr. Sum expands upon these experiences and her view that advancing education in the pathophysiology of endocrine and metabolic disease—even for those not specializing in the field—is critical to better management of these complex disorders. Drilling Home the Basics Dr. Sum, in your role as content director for the preclinical endocrine module, what are your main learning directives for students? Dr. Sum: Our biggest focus is to provide first-year medical students with foundational knowledge in physiology and an early introduction to the pathophysiology of the endocrine disorders and metabolic diseases they are going to encounter. Additionally, we’re working to add more focus on prevention. “We created and piloted virtual pharmacologic flashcards as part of the pivot toward virtual learning in 2020. They ended up becoming quite popular.” We’ve also undergone significant restructuring to adopt interactive, peer-to-peer, symptom-based learning. This is part of a school-wide initiative to shift away from lectures focused on isolated organs and systems. We prompt students with how a patient would present in clinic with symptoms like fatigue and weight gain rather than known problems like “thyroid disorder.” Then they create differential diagnoses using critical thinking across the organ systems and propose workups to identify the diagnosis, and we discuss pathophysiology and treatment. One of the new training materials you’ve helped develop is virtual flashcards. Tell us about their origin and success We created and piloted virtual pharmacologic flashcards as part of the pivot toward virtual learning in 2020. They ended up becoming quite popular, and we now use them across all the different modules, using even more sophisticated software. The goal was to enhance the pharmacologic information that our students have access to, with flashcards serving as a mode to deliver spaced repetition learning. The flashcards have details regarding mechanism of action, indication for usage, and common side effects. Some flashcards also feature illustrations for visualizing the mechanism of action. Templates as a Guide You’ve helped create templates that assist students as they navigate some of their first patient visits. Can you tell us more about their design and how they can be used? The goal is for medical students or residents to use these templates to enhance their toolbox as they join in on the endocrine clinical rotations. This time is very learning intensive with direct patient interaction. These learners are synthesizing all the knowledge they’ve learned during our course or during their own medical school course as they’re meeting with patients and figuring out the diagnoses and treatment plans. For a seasoned physician, this comes naturally because of honed knowledge on questions to ask and internalized illness scripts. For someone in the learning phase, they have all the foundational information, but it still needs to be put into neat categories for them to make sense of the patient case in front of them. “Regardless of the field they go into, everyone’s going to see patients with endocrine disorders.” To assist with the categorization of information, I created templates tackling the most common endocrine disorders that learners will encounter both on the inpatient and outpatient side, such as diabetes and thyroid disorders. That way, when meeting with a patient with diabetes, for example, the learner is armed with the right questions to ask from the onset to later synthesize the correct diagnosis—whether it is type 1, type 2, or medication-induced diabetes—and then to develop a targeted and comprehensive treatment plan. You mentioned you are researching their effectiveness. Yes, this is an IRB-approved project. We are giving templates to a subset of learners and, through surveys given after the endocrine rotation, we’ll evaluate whether the templates helped learners better understand and integrate the workup and diagnosis of endocrine disorders. Signs of Success How has the feedback you’ve received so far informed your educational vision? The feedback is typically very positive. Students really enjoy learning endocrinology, which is what I hope to inspire. Regardless of the field they go into, everyone’s going to see patients with endocrine disorders. For common disorders like diabetes and obesity, it’s important for anyone within the healthcare field to know the basics of treatment and prevention. But even for uncommon disorders, like acromegaly and endogenous Cushing syndrome, these patients can present to doctors in almost any specialty, and the diseases can sometimes be insidious in onset and hard to diagnose. Recently, a medical student told me that she helped diagnose an acquaintance with acromegaly after learning about it in our endocrine course! It was extremely gratifying to see our students helping patients so early in their training. Working with AI You’re interested in artificial intelligence (AI) applications for medical education and endocrine training in particular. Where are you at in exploring the emerging technologies? AI is certainly poised to change the course of work in medicine and education. NYU Langone is already positioned as a leading institution for advancing AI technologies, including being one of the few—if not the only—top academic medical centers with its own dedicated, HIPAA-compliant instance of ChatGPT. Within the medical school, we recently held a lengthy brainstorming session about the use of AI in medical education and how it could be helpful in organizing vast troves of information and creating content—both for learners and educators. We’re now actively planning how to use these new tools with such a big capacity for information delivery into our modules, starting with basics such as generation of more practice questions, and beyond. Bisphosphonates and Atypical Femoral Fractures: An Update Dr. Valerie Peck, MD, discusses the current state of research on bisphosphonate use and AFFs. Reducing the Uncertainties in Acromegaly Treatment New research and provider education could avoid harmful delays in management. Transgender and Gender Diverse Care: Progress and Opportunities in Hormone Therapy An expert in transgender endocrinology discusses the state of research and the clinical needs of diverse patients. TOaST: a Thyroidectomy Innovation Spares Patients Highly Visible Scars An enhanced approach builds on the benefits of transoral surgery. RFA Emerges as New Tool For Thyroid Tumors Novel Pathway Reveals How Large, Intact Lipoproteins Traverse the Endothelium Discovery shows how lipid accumulation may fuel eruptive xanthomas, other cutaneous conditions. Extending the Treatment Window for Open Distal Radius Fractures Retrospective review finds similar risk of postoperative complications in patients treated before or after 24 hours. New Radiographic Protocol Reduces Pediatric X-Rays The simple method safely reduces overall radiographic imaging for suspected fractures without missing any injuries. Rethinking the Costs and Benefits of SLAP Repairs Patients report better functional outcomes with a primary biceps tenodesis than with a secondary revision after a failed SLAP repair. NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2024 AAOS Annual Meeting Our physicians and world leaders gathered in San Francisco February 12–16, 2024, for the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS). Untangling Mechanisms of Diabetes & Cardiovascular Disease Risk , the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman Jr. Professor of Endocrinology and director of the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism , have been collaborating over the past several years to study macrovascular disease in diabetes. Now, with new funding from the NIH, their research focus is expanding. Here, Dr. Goldberg discusses how the funding will be used to assess whether LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction corrects platelet, white blood cell, and endothelial cell abnormalities associated with type 1 diabetes, and ascertain whether these changes parallel those found with type 2 diabetes. He also highlights their interim findings, emphasizing multidisciplinary collaboration as a key driver of long-term success. Building Upon Previous Knowledge Dr. Goldberg, tell us about your work with Dr. Berger and how the new funding is allowing you to expand this focus. Dr. Goldberg: Three years ago, Dr. Berger and I received funding from the American Heart Association for the Cholesterol Lowering and Residual Risk in Type 2 Diabetes (CHORD) trial . In this study, we’re investigating risk factors for heart disease and stroke, including platelet activity, inflammation, and blood vessel wall function in patients with type 2 diabetes and elevated LDL-C, and how these measurements are impacted when LDL-C is reduced by about 75 percent. With our new funding, we’ve launched a follow-up trial, Cholesterol Lowering and Residual Risk in Diabetes, Type 1 (CHORD1) , which is a prospective, interventional, cohort study that will be carried out at five sites within the New York City area. The purpose of the study is to analyze the effect of reducing cholesterol levels on the same risk factors as outlined in CHORD, but for patients with type 1 diabetes. We plan to compare the results of both studies. “In addition to providing critical insights into the macrovascular complications of diabetes, both studies will help us better understand the relationship between LDL-C reduction and vascular disease in patients with diabetes.” In addition to providing critical insights into the macrovascular complications of diabetes, both studies will help us better understand the relationship between LDL-C reduction and vascular disease in patients with diabetes. Convincing Early Research What early research led to the initiation of CHORD and CHORD1? Studies have shown that marked reductions in non-HDL cholesterol (HDL-C), and to a lesser extent triglycerides, associate with plaque regression. While observational data has linked HDL-C and triglycerides to risk of cardiovascular disease, such studies have a limited role in elucidating the causal risk conferred by these lipid fractions because of confounding by correlated metabolic syndrome traits. Our earlier findings show that LDL-C, HDL-C, and triglycerides are independently associated with coronary artery disease, suggesting that each of these factors are biologically active at the level of the arterial wall. Patients with diabetes have greater platelet aggregation, altered white blood cells, and more vascular inflammation—pathological processes that are improved by LDL-C reduction in unaffected individuals. Research into ApoB-Lp You’re also involved in a new project investigating apolipoprotein-B–containing lipoprotein (apoB-Lp) biogenesis and catabolism. Tell us about this work. This program project award, led by Mahmood Hussain, PhD , will explore how changes in adipose tissue lipolysis, liver assembly of apoB-Lp, and plasma clearance of lipids affect circulating levels of atherogenic apoB-Lp. My project will develop methods to block lipid movement out of the circulation and into the arterial wall where it can cause atherosclerosis. We have received five years of funding for this project from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Drawing on a Well of Expertise You’ve led several multidisciplinary clinical trials. How does collaboration play a role in your research productivity and success? NYU Langone has a strong history and well of expertise that’s relevant to endocrinology and lipid disorders. By collaborating with other investigators, I’ve been able to foster relationships with experts that I might not otherwise have interacted with—those with diverse perspectives and different areas of research. Ultimately, I believe that this has been a major reason for our success. Endocrinology, Lipid Disorders Ira J. Goldberg, MD, is the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman Jr. Professor of Endocrinology and director of the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism. His research focuses on abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism, macrovascular disease in diabetes, and the role of triglycerides in atherosclerosis. AI-Driven Screening for Anxiety & Depression Pandemic-related mental health issues in healthcare workers were detected by applying AI to teletherapy transcripts. Strengthening Support for Adults with ADHD Renowned ADHD expert Dr. Lenard Adler details the latest evidence-based assessments and interventions for adults. Presenters at the 2023 APA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health psychiatrists joined international colleagues in San Francisco, May 20–24. We have several convenient locations across Manhattan. NYU Langone’s general pediatric care team offers several convenient locations across Manhattan to provide the best treatment possible for children, whether they live Uptown, Downtown, or somewhere in between. Our team of pediatric experts provide both well and sick visits, immunizations, annual examinations, and more. Together, we aim to partner with you to discuss everything from your child’s growth and developmental milestones to behavioral and emotional progress, nutritional needs, and more so that you can feel confident in the care your child receives. Our pediatric care teams offer services for children from birth through age 18 across Manhattan and are available across a wide variety of days and hours to best meet your and your child’s needs. , we have direct access to pediatric experts who can provide specialized care for your child, if needed. Come see our providers in the Financial District at , in Greenwich Village at , and on the Upper East Side at Our pediatric experts provide the best care possible for children with conditions ranging from minor to more complex illnesses. Andrea Brescia Pediatrician Bruce Brovender Michaela B. Domaratzky Genevieve Ferrier Eric P. Gibbs Niloufar Gidfar Lisa Hughes Robin S. Jacobson Christine Lambiris Joseph C. Licata Debra Mesnick Palmo Pasquariello Vicki M. Porges Camille Senzamici Ayala Wegman Anna Zhivotovsky National Research Push Targets Progression to Psoriatic Arthritis NYU Langone Health-led trial is key component of research evaluating preventive intervention, biomarkers. Jose U. Scher, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Of the estimated 3 percent of the United States population with psoriasis, roughly 25 percent will develop psoriatic arthritis, with psoriasis of the nails or scalp disproportionately increasing the associated risk. The link between the two conditions has given researchers at NYU Langone Health a unique opportunity to study pre-clinical disease with a specific biomarker that could clarify how the inflammatory process progresses from skin to joints. “We can’t turn the clock back once they progress to psoriatic arthritis … But we might be able to slow or stop progression to psoriatic arthritis through early treatment.” “In patients with latent disease, we can’t turn the clock back once they progress to psoriatic arthritis, and our available medications all have limitations,” says . “But we might be able to slow or stop progression to psoriatic arthritis through early treatment.” Dr. Scher and colleagues are leading a major multicenter study, Preventing Arthritis in a Multicenter Psoriasis At-Risk Population (PAMPA) , that has been years in the making. The randomized trial across five North American medical centers has begun recruiting patients with psoriasis or other risk factors, such as a first-degree relative with psoriatic arthritis. “We are focusing on the earliest treatment phase, before patients even develop joint pain,” says Rebecca Haberman, MD , the trial’s associate lead. “In addition to providing crucial insights into the progression of psoriatic disease, this study could change the paradigm for treatment.” The study, conducted in collaboration with Janssen Pharmaceuticals, will test if a prolonged and unresolved skin inflammation, coupled with entheseal and synovial abnormalities detected via musculoskeletal ultrasound, will increase the risk for a transition to psoriatic arthritis. Comparing Rates of Progression In one arm, 100 at-risk patients will receive a subcutaneous injection of the drug guselkumab for 24 months. In a second arm, another 100 patients will be similarly randomized and begin the intervention or placebo after a 6-month delay. In a third arm of 150 patients who don’t wish to be treated, the researchers will use the non-biologic standard of care as a negative control. “We’ll compare the rate of progression between those who are treated and those who are not treated,” Dr. Scher says. Another primary endpoint will test whether the intervention improves subclinical inflammation within the first six months, as seen on ultrasound. In addition, the trial may reveal key biomarkers of progression, including whether the skin and gut microbiome, circulating immune cells, and molecules such as cytokines help predict progression from predominantly skin to joint inflammation. Even if early intervention does not prevent outright progression from psoriasis to psoriatic arthritis, it might help attenuate the severity of disease. “In addition to providing crucial insights into the progression of psoriatic disease, this study could change the paradigm for treatment.” “It may very well be that this is not the right drug to prevent progression,” Dr. Scher says. “But by looking at biomarkers, any implicated immune and environmental pathways might point toward cells or molecules that could be targeted in subsequent prevention efforts.” Amping Up the Search for Better Therapeutics The PAMPA prevention trial is being complemented by a larger National Institutes of Health (NIH)-funded program—the Accelerating Medicines Partnership (AMP) Recently, AMP expanded its project on autoimmune disorders to include psoriatic disease as a major focal point. The public-private partnership is pairing rheumatologists and dermatologists from NYU Langone and other participating centers in the PAMPA study with the NIH and pharmaceutical companies to speed the development of better therapeutic options. Part of the program’s focus will be on understanding the mechanics of disease progression, using data from the natural history of disease similar to the third arm of the PAMPA trial. In addition to tracking biomarkers such as potential changes in the microbiome and circulating immune cells, participants will undergo biopsies of the skin and joint synovium. “The skin may have the code for who progresses, why, and how,” Dr. Scher says. “We want to find which cells that reside in the skin are being attracted—the term we use is homing—to the joints to produce and promote inflammation.” Beyond identifying which patients progress, the larger research effort may clarify how the disease migrates and responds to therapy. “Is there anything in the tissue that tells us whether some person will respond to medication X and not to medication Y, or vice versa?” Dr. Scher says. “What’s in that code may help us adopt a desperately needed precision medicine approach.” Rebecca Haberman, MD, is a clinical instructor in medicine and assistant director of the Psoriatic Arthritis Center. Her research and clinical interests include rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. Sounding the Alarm on the High Prevalence of VEXAS Syndrome Insights into an inflammatory condition’s root cause leads experts toward new models of care. A growing body of knowledge is emerging through research at NYU Langone Health around VEXAS syndrome, a constellation of inflammatory symptoms whose origin was, until recently, a medical mystery. The condition primarily impacts men over age 50 and carries a high mortality rate. , an assistant professor of medicine and biochemistry and molecular pharmacology and a member of the Center for Human Genetics and Genomics , was a member of a large research collaborative that first characterized the condition —and its link to somatic mutations in the gene UBA1 —by studying a cohort of patients with undiagnosed, multisystem inflammatory conditions referred to the NIH. With his team’s latest study estimating VEXAS syndrome to be more common than previously thought , the group’s ongoing efforts are focused on identifying at-risk groups and strategies for diagnosis and treatment. “Our research demonstrates a higher prevalence of VEXAS syndrome than more commonly recognized rheumatologic or hematologic conditions.” “Our research demonstrates a higher prevalence of VEXAS syndrome than more commonly recognized rheumatologic or hematologic conditions; now it must be considered in differential diagnosis of patients who exhibit symptoms,” says Dr. Beck. Diagnosing the Undiagnosed Revealed within the newly identified syndrome’s name are its associated characteristics—vacuoles in blood cells, the E1 enzyme, X-linked, autoinflammatory, and somatic. With symptoms ranging from high fevers and joint pain to vasculitis and dermatitis, it is typically misdiagnosed as other rheumatologic or hematologic conditions until standard treatment for those conditions fails to elicit durable improvement. “We now understand that diagnosis of VEXAS syndrome involves pinpointing a set of hallmark features—including elevated inflammatory markers and low blood counts or anemia—within a spectrum of symptoms,” Dr. Beck says. Quantifying the Prevalence To estimate the prevalence of pathogenic variants in the general population, Dr. Beck and his team analyzed the electronic health records of 163,096 primarily White men and women over the age of 50 within the Geisinger Health System who agreed to have their blood screened for signs of genetic disease. Of those screened, 9 male and 2 female individuals were found to harbor somatic variants associated with VEXAS syndrome, which correlates to 1 in 4,269 American men and 1 in 26,238 women over 50 likely to have or develop the syndrome. Every patient genetically identified also had a clinical manifestation of the syndrome. Building a New Care Model Addressing the wide-ranging symptomatology observed in VEXAS syndrome demands a multidisciplinary approach involving rheumatologists, hematologists, pulmonologists, dermatologists, and other specialists. “We’re aligning clinical resources and research to build our capacity for diagnosing and treating the condition.” In more severe cases, the condition can cause recalcitrant thrombocytopenia and anemia in the setting of myelodysplastic syndrome, effectively a progressive bone marrow failure requiring transplant. To contain inflammation, high-dose steroids, JAK inhibitors, and other immunosuppressants can be helpful—though those treatment options are limited in their efficacy and durability. Often, patients need to cycle through multiple medication regimens and are unable to taper from high doses of steroids without symptom recurrence. Aligning Clinical Resources and Research Dr. Beck and rheumatology colleague , are now working to establish a referral center and a multispecialty clinic model for comprehensive care, where they can test new therapies that target the condition’s genetic basis and its associated pathways. Their research priorities include pinpointing populations at greater risk for VEXAS syndrome, searching for additional genetic associations, and better understanding treatment responses, which Dr. Beck says becomes increasingly important as awareness of the disease increases. “We’re aligning clinical resources and research to build our capacity for diagnosing and treating the condition,” says Dr. Ho. “The more patients referred to us, the more we hone the necessary expertise to manage their symptoms with comprehensive care.” Clinical Genetics, Rheumatology David B. Beck, MD, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine and biochemistry and molecular pharmacology and a member of the Center for Human Genetics and Genomics. He runs the Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program and specializes in the genetics of autoinflammatory conditions. Gary H. Ho, MD, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Medicine. His research interests include VEXAS syndrome, enteropathic arthritis, and gout. Sounding the Alarm on the High Prevalence of VEXAS Syndrome Lupus Study Will Offer Unique View of Patients’ Overall Health New CDC-funded research will examine comorbidities, disparities, quality of life, and home testing options. An Expanding View of Behçet’s Disease Under new NIH grants, a renowned research and clinical program seeks new insights into Behçet’s and related diseases. Presenters at the 2022 ACR Annual Convergence Meeting NYU Langone Health rheumatologists joined international colleagues in Philadelphia, November 10–14. Vocal Fold Mucosa-Muscle Interactions Revealed for First Time Laryngeal diseases are commonly divided into two mutually-exclusive diagnostic categories: mucosal injury or neuromuscular/functional disorders. Yet this distinction does not account for potential interactions between tissue types, as occurs in other organ systems. Until recently, no such relationship had been described in the vocal folds. Recently, NYU Langone Health researchers published the first-ever study of interactions between cells from the vocal fold mucosal and underlying muscle in Annals of Otology, Rhinology and Laryngology Ryan C. Branski, PhD , the Howard A. Rusk Associate Professor of Rehabilitation Research, the team included Ryosuke Nakamura, PhD, an associate research scientist in the Department of Rehabilitation, and , associate professor of rehabilitation medicine and otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. The researchers used tissue from rats, culturing mucosal fibroblasts and thyroarytenoid myoblasts in vitro “The etiology of vocal fold disorders is diverse, and the efficacy of current interventions is variable. We need to gain a deeper understanding of basic disease processes to improve outcomes for patients with these conditions.” The etiology of vocal fold disorders is diverse, and the efficacy of current interventions is variable,” Dr. Branski explains. “We need to gain a deeper understanding of basic disease processes to improve outcomes for patients with these conditions.” Seeking Clues from Lower Airway Disorders The team investigated whether a phenomenon known to occur in the lower airway might apply to the vocal folds as well: interactions between mucosal and muscular tissue. In asthma, for example, increased contractile properties of airway smooth muscle are considered a hallmark of the disease, together with mucosal inflammation. This combination of pathologies appears to be related to altered expression of contractile proteins—particularly, myosin light-chain phosphorylation—within airway smooth muscle. Downstream, overexpression of fast myosin heavy chain isoforms in airway smooth muscle enhances intracellular calcium signaling, Dr. Branski explains. Overexpression of calcium-sensing receptor, in turn, further exacerbates the abnormal cascade of mucosal-muscle signaling in asthma. A Surprising Reciprocity Dr. Branski and his colleagues hypothesized that injury to the vocal folds elicits similarly complex interactions between the vocal fold lamina propria and the underlying muscle. “As a first step to test this idea, we sought to investigate the effects of vocal fold fibroblasts on myoblasts,” he says. “Interestingly, however, our data show significant bidirectional effects between cell types.” “These findings suggest that laryngeal muscle health may contribute to mucosal well-being. Conversely, muscle dysfunction could potentially have a deleterious effect on the vocal fold mucosa.” The researchers analyzed fibroblast proliferation and migration in the presence of myoblast-conditioned growth media, using TGF-beta and other substances to induce the myofibroblastic phenotype. After 24 hours, they analyzed phenotypic shifts and cellular differentiation. Generally, the myoblasts favorably impacted fibroblasts (for example, decreasing Acta2 mRNA expression), while the effects of fibroblasts on myoblasts were unfavorable (for example, decreasing myosin heavy chain expression). “These findings suggest that laryngeal muscle health may contribute to mucosal well-being,” Dr. Branski observes. “Conversely, muscle dysfunction could potentially have a deleterious effect on the vocal fold mucosa.” The potential implications of these interactions warrant further investigation, he stresses. Ultimately, such research could lead to better treatment strategies—whether pharmacological, surgical, or behavioral—for a wide range of vocal fold disorders. Ryan C. Branski, PhD, is the Howard A. Rusk Associate Professor of Rehabilitation Research, vice-chair of research in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, and an associate professor of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. His research interests focus on therapeutic approaches for diseases of the upper aerodigestive tract that manifest as speech, voice, and swallowing disorders. Rusk Rehabilitation: 75 Years Strong First image of Howard Rusk, MD, provided by the State Historical Society of Missouri. Since its founding in 1948, NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation has focused on providing patients with high-quality, innovative rehabilitation care and the recovery resources they need to lead full and rewarding lives. To quote Howard A. Rusk, M.D., widely considered the father of rehabilitation medicine and our program’s namesake: “To believe in rehabilitation is to believe in humanity.” Rusk’s very simple philosophy – that physical medicine and rehabilitation should involve the whole person – has driven Rusk Rehabilitation’s remarkable growth over the last 75 years. Today, our internationally recognized programs cover the full spectrum of rehabilitative services and our experts continue to be leaders in research and education, as well as clinical care. Celebrating Our 75th Anniversary Join us in New York City as we celebrate this important milestone in our history! Our one-day celebratory event will include a research symposium and reception, presentation of awards including the Rusk Award for Leadership and Innovation in PM&R, and a variety of other social and professional networking opportunities. September 22, 2023; 10 am–7 pm NYU Langone Science Building 435 E. 30th Street 1st Floor Room 1-03 To Register To register, visit this link Early Neurorehabilitation Shows Promise in Disorders of Consciousness after COVID-19 1) In a study, 21 adult patients participated in a neurorehabilitation program that included serial Coma Recovery Scale-Revised (CRS-R) assessments and access to brain injury specialists. Interventions included multimodal sensory stimulation therapies and neurostimulant medications. Researchers compared clinical features of patients who did and did not recover to the minimally conscious state (MCS) or better, defined as a CRS-R total score (TS) greater than or equal to 8, before discharge. The team also examined factors associated with best CRS-R TS, last CRS-R TS, and time on mechanical ventilation. ADAPTED FROM: Neurocritical Care , 2021 Oct 5;1-15. Study findings showed that patients had CRS-R assessments a median of 6 times before discharge, beginning a median of 48 days from admission, and 12 patients (57 percent) recovered to minimally conscious (MCS) before discharge, after a median of 8 days off continuous sedation. Recovered patients had lower body mass index (BMI), lower C-reactive protein levels, higher arterial pressures, and earlier fentanyl discontinuation. CRS-R scores fluctuated over time, and the best CRS-R TS was higher than the last CRS-R TS (median 8 versus 5). Earlier fentanyl and neuromuscular blockage discontinuation correlated with a higher last CRS-R TS. ADAPTED FROM: Study researchers conclude that early neurorehabilitation of patients with prolonged unresponsiveness after severe COVID-19 can be accomplished in the intensive care unit (ICU). Hypoxia, systemic inflammation, sedation, and neuromuscular blockade may impact diagnostic assessment and prognosis. Consciousness fluctuations make serial assessments essential. Further research should investigate longer-term neurologic recovery and benefits of early rehabilitation. ADAPTED FROM: Early neurorehabilitation improves outcomes in patients with disorders of consciousness (DoC) after brain injury, but its applicability in COVID-19 is unknown. In a researchers led by Lindsey J. Gurin, MD , director for Behavioral Neurology at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, found that such an approach could benefit these patients as well. “The results were encouraging. Over half of our cohort recovered to minimally conscious or better before hospital discharge.” During New York City’s initial pandemic surge, from March through May 2020, the team developed and implemented an early neurorehabilitation protocol for patients in the intensive care unit at NYU Langone Health with prolonged unresponsiveness after severe COVID-19. “The results were encouraging,” says Dr. Gurin. “Over half of our cohort recovered to minimally conscious or better before hospital discharge, achieving a clinical benchmark known to have relatively favorable long-term prognostic implications in DoC.”  “Fortunately, we had already developed a similar program for DoC patients of other etiologies,” notes coauthor Brian S. Im, MD, former director of the Brain Injury Rehabilitation Program. “We were able to adapt existing infrastructure to an unprecedented situation.” Neurology, Psychiatry, Rehabilitation Lindsey J. Gurin, MD, is director for Behavioral Neurology at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, and an assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine, psychiatry, and neurology. Her research and clinical interests center on brain injury, dementia, Alzheimer’s, and behavioral disorders. Developing an Affordable, Smart Navigation System for the Visually Impaired Inexpensive wearables and cloud-based services could transform guidance support worldwide. Predicting Dysphagia After Elective Spine Surgery Research will clarify swallowing problems resulting from anterior cervical discectomy and fusion. The Rehabilitation Course for the World’s First Face & Double Hand Transplant Leading the National Plan to Study Long-Term Impacts of COVID-19 NYU Langone Health is mobilizing to oversee the NIH’s multi-site, multi-year RECOVER initiative. Physiatrists Set National Framework for COVID-19 Rehab and “Long COVID” In June 2021, a multi-institutional team led by , an associate professor of rehabilitation medicine, published a white paper on the role of physiatry in COVID-19 inpatient rehabilitation in the journal PM&R Commissioned by the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, the paper advised on topics including pandemic-related changes in care delivery; health and safety of providers and patients; training requirements for physiatrists redeployed to COVID-19 units; and workarounds for inpatient rehabilitation facilities. A section on lessons for the future stressed countering burnout, early engagement of physiatrists, mastering the continuum of care, and fostering resiliency. “We’ve opened a window for dialogue that could enhance strategic planning throughout the healthcare system.” “The pandemic, for all its horrors, has created opportunities for improving care,” Dr. Whiteson says. “As physiatrists show their value in managing COVID patients and building collaborative processes with other specialties, we’ve opened a window for dialogue that could enhance strategic planning throughout the healthcare system.” Providing Guidance for Treating PASC Dr. Whiteson is also a leader of AAPM&R’s Multidisciplinary Post-Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 Infection (PASC) Collaborative, which brings together physiatrists with clinicians from other specialties—such as pulmonology, cardiology, and neurology—to develop guidance on best practices in rehabilitation for “long COVID” patients. The collaborative is publishing a series of guidance statements in . The first statement , on the assessment and treatment of fatigue in PASC, was released in August 2021. Its recommendations included strategies for phased return to activity, energy conservation, therapeutic diet, and pharmacologic therapy. “A key approach in all these areas is to encourage patients to follow the strategies independently,” Dr. Whiteson explains. “To optimize energy conservation, for example, patients should be educated in the ‘Four P’s’—Pacing, Prioritizing, Positioning, and Planning.” Patients should also be advised on ways to resume work, the authors suggest, as long as it does not worsen symptoms or lead to significant post-exertional malaise. Possible accommodations include limiting hours, working from home, adjusting physical aspects of work activities, using mobility aids as necessary, and taking more breaks. second guidance statement , on the management of cognitive impairments in PASC patients, was published in December 2021 with Rusk Rehabilitation associate professor Jeffrey S. Fine, MD , as its lead author. This paper offered recommendations for assessing and treating cognitive and neurologic symptoms, such as headache, brain fog, memory problems, executive function deficits, and visuospatial difficulties. In January 2022, Dr. Whiteson and the collaborative published a third guidance statement , on the assessment and treatment of breathing discomfort and respiratory sequelae. Drawing Lessons from the Front Lines Future guidelines will cover other manifestations of PASC, including its impact on cardiovascular and autonomic, behavioral and mental, and pediatric health. Each guidance statement will include a section on healthcare equity and incorporate input from patient advocacy groups. “We experience this syndrome one way as physicians, but patients experience it another way. It’s crucial to understand that,” notes Dr. Whiteson. Rusk Rehabiliation has long been on the front lines of treating both acute COVID-19 and its long-term health impacts. As the first wave of the pandemic impacted New York, Rusk experts shared their insights through a series of webinars , as well as the weekly Rusk Insights on Rehabilitation Medicine podcast and NYU Langone Health’s SiriusXM channel, “We were among the first centers to implement prone positioning and other rehabilitation procedures for patients hospitalized with COVID, and among the first to launch a clinic for patients with PASC.” “Our experience in this area gives us a great deal to offer,” says , Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine. “We were among the first centers to implement prone positioning and other rehabilitation procedures for patients hospitalized with COVID, and among the first to launch a clinic for patients with PASC.” Jonathan H. Whiteson, MD, is vice chair for Rusk Rehabilitation Clinical Operations, medical director of cardiac rehabilitation, and an associate professor of medicine and rehabilitation medicine. His research focuses on cardiac and pulmonary rehabilitation. Severe Hearing Loss: Exploring Unmet Needs Among Veterans has a significant impact on the health and quality of life of more than 30 million U.S. adults . Among veterans, it is one of the most common service-related disabilities related to military noise exposure. For those with severe hearing loss, the Veterans Affairs (VA) healthcare system offers comprehensive services, including hearing aids and cochlear implants, that differ from those available to Medicare patients. Cochlear implants can restore speech understanding in patients with severe hearing loss who experience life-changing difficulties such as loss of oral communication and have limited benefits from hearing aids. To date, there has been little research to clarify the factors influencing how and why veterans and their providers adopt certain technologies for severe hearing loss. , an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery, is now leading NYU Langone Health researchers in exploring this question using unique databases within the VA system. “The VA is an optimal setting to study management of severe hearing loss due to unique access to data within the audiometric repository, which allows for identification of patient, system and provider factors associated with receipt of various treatment strategies,” says Dr. Friedmann. “Our long term goal is to confirm evidence-based treatments are available to those most severely affected by hearing loss.” “Our long term goal is to confirm evidence-based treatments are available to those most severely affected by hearing loss.” The Pilot Study Dr. Friedmann and his team are conducting a pilot study of hearing loss, funded by the VA Health Services Research and Development Service, that incorporates video interviews with key stakeholders, including veterans’ primary care providers and audiologists, along with quantitative data from the VA’s robust audiometric and prosthetics database. “Optimal management of hearing loss requires a good understanding of the perspectives of various stakeholders,” says Dr. Friedmann. “Our multilevel analysis of the longitudinal VA dataset will allow for the identification of both the macro- and micro-level factors that impact patient care.” This mixed methods analysis will be used to clarify the prevalence, modes of treatment, and time to treatment of veterans with severe hearing loss, as well as identify factors associated with different treatment approaches. The researchers also plan a thematic analysis of semi-structured interviews to identify barriers and facilitators to particular treatment modalities. Hypothesizing Contributing Factors Despite guideline recommendations, cochlear implantation in the U.S. remains underutilized, with some studies estimating 6 to percent usage among potential candidates. While the precise reasons for cochlear implant underutilization remain unclear, experts believe that limited knowledge of candidacy criteria by primary care providers, poor patient understanding of outcomes, and disparities in reimbursement may be contributing factors. This project, Dr. Friedmann says, will be able to explore these and other factors using a repository containing hundreds of thousands of audiograms. “Delays in implantation can prolong patient disability and may limit successful outcomes.” “Delays in implantation can prolong patient disability and may limit successful outcomes,” says Dr. Friedmann. “Understanding and addressing these barriers could represent a modifiable risk factor for eligible candidates.” Changing Patient-Provider Behaviors Ultimately, Dr. Friedmann believes that the delivery of optimal hearing care requires tailored treatments offered on the basis of specific degree of hearing loss and individual patient preferences within both the VA and civilian population. Education will also be key, for both patients and providers, Dr. Friedmann notes. “We hope our data will inform the development and testing of educational materials to achieve best practices in the treatment of this condition.” NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2024 AAOS Annual Meeting This February 12–16, NYU Langone Orthopedics researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons in San Francisco At this year’s meeting, NYU Langone Orthopedic faculty present 39 posters, 31 e-posters, 34 papers, 31 videos, and 21 symposia, courses, and special sessions ( ). Notable sessions at this year’s conference included: Thursday, February 15 Podium Presentation: Use of Technology Improves Short-Term Clinical Outcomes in Total Knee Arthroplasty : Benjamin Schaffler, MD; Jonathan L. Katzman, BA; Muhammad A. Haider; Weston Buehring, BS; Matthew S. Hepinstall, MD, FAAOS : 11:29–11:33 am : West, Room 2001 Podium Presentation: Trimming the Risks: Weight Loss and its Effect on Obesity-Related Complications in Spine Fusion Surgery : Abel De Varona Cocero, BA; Camryn P. Myers, BA; Constance Maglaras, PhD ; Fares Ani, MD; Themistocles S. Protopsaltis, MD, FAAOS Tina Raman, MD : 1:38–1:42 pm : South, Esplanade Ballroom 153 Podium Presentation: The Monitored Anesthesia Care–Soft Tissue Infiltration with Local Anesthesia (MAC–STILA) Technique Decreases Incidence of Short-Term Postoperative Altered Mental Status in Hip Fracture Patients Sanjit R. Konda, MD Abhishek Ganta, MD : 3:30–3:34 pm : South, Esplanade Ballroom 155 Friday, February 16 American Orthopaedic Society of Sports Medicine Specialty Session: Patients with Bilateral ACL Reconstruction (ACLR) Have 3X the Rate of Posterior Tibial Slope Greater than 12-Degrees Compared to Unilateral ACLR: MRI and Radiographic Evaluation : Sharif Garra, MD; Zachary Li, BS; Jairo Triana, BS; Naina Rao; Laith M. Jazrawi, MD : 8:15–8:20 am Rethinking the Costs and Benefits of SLAP Repairs A study by orthopedic surgeons at NYU Langone Health has demonstrated that a primary biceps tenodesis procedure yields better outcomes than a secondary biceps tenodesis performed after a failed SLAP (superior labrum anterior to posterior) repair. Orthopedic surgeons commonly see SLAP tears of the shoulder secondary to trauma and associated with overuse in overhead-throwing athletes and manual workers. An arthroscopic repair of the superior glenoid labrum where the biceps originates can maintain the patient’s anatomy, but the continued pull of the biceps on the labrum and other potential limitations have yielded a high rate of clinical failure after SLAP repair, especially among older patients. Many surgeons have traditionally reasoned that a failed SLAP repair could be revised with little or no harm to the patient by following up with a biceps tenodesis, which has a higher success rate but requires cutting the biceps and switching its anchor from the labrum to the upper part of the humerus. “Starting with the SLAP repair is not without harm; patients may be compromising their potential outcome more than if they just had the primary bicep tenodesis to begin with.” “Doing what we call the potentially ‘safer surgery’ by repairing it is not necessarily safer, it’s just that surgeons are more comfortable with that,” says study coauthor Division of Sports Medicine . Because a biceps tenodesis involves cutting the biceps and transferring it, patients and doctors often view it as a much more involved procedure. “In this study, we found that it’s better to do the primary biceps tenodesis, if it’s indicated, than to repair the SLAP tear,” Dr. Jazrawi says. “Starting with the SLAP repair is not without harm; patients may be compromising their potential outcome more than if they just had the primary bicep tenodesis to begin with.” Better Outcomes The retrospective comparison study, published in Arthroscopy, Sports Medicine, and Rehabilitation , compared 57 male patients who underwent a primary biceps tenodesis with 19 counterparts who underwent a secondary biceps tenodesis after an initial, failed SLAP repair. The researchers found that the primary biceps tenodesis cohort reported significantly better functional and pain outcomes (Figure 1). The study found no significant differences in the rate or timing of return to play, and none of the patients required a further shoulder surgery after the biceps tenodesis. Figure 1. A comparison of functional outcomes from primary and secondary biceps tenodesis. Adapted From: Lorentz NA, et al. Arthrosc Sports Med Rehabil. 2022;4:e1979-e1983 In prior head-to-head comparison studies, a primary biceps tenodesis delivered better long-term outcomes, an easier recovery, higher patient satisfaction, and a higher return to play rate than a primary SLAP repair. The new study confirms those earlier findings in a larger, independent patient population. “Go right after the pathology with the correct treatment from the get-go, and the current data supports that the correct treatment is a biceps tenodesis.” Eric J. Strauss, MD “The source of the trouble with a SLAP tear is likely the displacement of the superior labrum by the long head of the biceps,” says study coauthor and orthopedic surgeon . “If you take the long head of the biceps out of the equation and move it to a different spot, which is what a tenodesis accomplishes, you can significantly improve a patient’s symptoms because you’re basically taking away the pain generator and a lot of the theoretical reasons why a SLAP repair would fail.” Dr. Strauss maintains that the accumulating data support a phase-out of SLAP repairs. “One of the big take-home messages from our study and all of our research into patients with SLAP tears is take the middleman out of the picture,” he says. “While we did show that you can have a successful result after a failed SLAP repair, go right after the pathology with the correct treatment from the get-go, and the current data supports that the correct treatment is a biceps tenodesis.” Sports Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery Laith M. Jazrawi, MD, is a professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and chief of the Division of Sports Medicine. He specializes in both orthopedic surgery and sports orthopedic surgery. Eric J. Strauss, MD, is assistant professor in the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. His research interests include cartilage and ligament repair, meniscus repair, rotatorcuff repair, and shoulder arthritis. CBD Improves Pain and Satisfaction After Rotator Cuff Repair Randomized, controlled cannabidiol trial yields promising results immediately after arthroscopic surgery. Needle Arthroscopy Excels in Carpal Pathology Study finds needle arthroscopy provides excellent access to and visualization of small joints despite a small loss in image quality. Reprogramming Stem Cells to Overcome Bone Loss Study points to a pivotal role for Notch in preserving skeletal integrity and warding off bone loss during aging. Modified Oberlin Treats an Infant’s Erb’s Palsy Early intervention restores elbow flexion, with no contracture and improved shoulder function. Hox Genes Prove Crucial for Bone Maintenance & Repair Study finds Hox gene expression can aid bone healing, suggesting a novel target for tissue engineering therapies. Dual Portal Endoscopic Spine Surgery: Honing a Game Changer Extremely minimally invasive endoscopic technique offers to greatly reduce postoperative pain and recovery times. Strengthening Support for Adults with ADHD Lenard A. Adler, MD Adult ADHD Program , is recognized as a national expert in adult psychiatric disorders, specializing in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and related conditions. Currently, he is serving on a committee assembled by the American Professional Society of ADHD and Related Disorders to develop what will be the first U.S. guidelines for adult ADHD. Given the significant underdiagnosis of ADHD in adults, he says awareness is key to ensuring patients receive effective treatment to improve symptoms, emotional stability, and overall functioning. Although they are often overlooked, treatments ranging from pharmacological to behavioral and psychosocial interventions can ameliorate symptoms. Here, Dr. Adler discusses his framework for recognizing and treating ADHD in adults, tools his team has helped develop to support international screening, and how clinical trials underway at NYU Langone are addressing gaps in treatment. The Impact of Underdiagnosis When ADHD goes unaddressed in adults, what impact does that have on a patient’s overall health and wellbeing? Dr. Adler: Underdiagnosis is a critical issue, leaving those affected at risk of experiencing ongoing difficulties. Surprisingly, ADHD is the second most common neuropsychiatric disorder, affecting 8 to 9 million adults across the country. Only about 11 percent of adults with ADHD are currently diagnosed or treated. Over the years, countless studies have established links between untreated adult ADHD and adverse life outcomes, including poor academic performance, lower income, and a higher probability of being divorced or separated. It has also been strongly linked to delinquency and substance use disorders. “ADHD is a risk factor for comorbid psychiatric conditions. Adults will often seek help for the comorbid condition first, before the ADHD is identified.” What’s more, ADHD is a risk factor for comorbid psychiatric conditions, such as bipolar disorder, personality disorders, major depressive disorder, and anxiety disorders. Notably, adults will often seek help for the comorbid condition first, before the ADHD is identified. Screening and Assessment Tools What are the common symptoms of ADHD in adults, and how can screening help identify at-risk individuals? The most common symptoms are hyperactivity, inattention, easy distraction, trouble listening, and impulsiveness. These usually lead to behavioral, emotional, and vocational problems and co-present with another psychiatric disorder. “ADHD can run in families. It is advisable to ask parents if they themselves have symptoms when their child is being evaluated.” ADHD can also run in families. Thus, it is advisable to ask parents if they themselves have symptoms when their child is being evaluated. We are able to conduct online consultations and assessments through the , a secure and confidential platform that allows our specialists to provide personalized care remotely and at flexible times. Our team has been instrumental in designing a portfolio of assessment tools, including the Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale Symptom Checklist Adult ADHD Self-Report Screener , in partnership with researchers at Harvard University and others. These are useful for general practitioners who want to become more familiar with the symptoms of ADHD in adults, and they are globally leveraged for education, research, and direct care. Appropriate Intervention What treatment options are available for adults with ADHD, and what is your approach to treatment selection? Our approach to treatment selection is a shared decision-making process among the psychiatrist, the patient, and their caregivers. Generally speaking, the first step is establishing the diagnosis, then determining whether pharmacological or nonpharmacological treatment will be used, and if both, how they will be sequenced. We consider the age of the patient, the severity of the disorder, and any comorbidities. “Our approach to treatment selection is a shared decision-making process. Patient preference should be the primary consideration.” Most adults are treated with psychostimulants, which include methylphenidate and amphetamines. Newer developments in drug therapy are focused on modifying the mechanism of drug delivery, specifically by extending their half-lives to minimize side effects. Other approved pharmacological options include atomoxetine and viloxazine, both selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Common side effects of psychostimulants include increased heart rate and blood pressure, agitation, insomnia, and in rare cases, unusual thoughts. When deciding on a treatment strategy, these factors need to be taken into account, and patient preference should be the primary consideration. As these agents are controlled substances, monitoring is essential to prevent misuse or misdirection. In terms of nonpharmacological strategies, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) or relaxation with educational support are common adjuncts to standard medication therapy. There is some evidence to support behavioral interventions as well. What gaps in treatment exist today, and how can we address them? While there are many stimulants and nonstimulants approved for treating adult ADHD, some patients still experience symptoms and functional impairments. To bridge these gaps, we have several clinical trials currently underway that are testing psychostimulants for a variety of different symptom sets, including those that affect co-traveling symptoms, known to affect higher-level organizational and planning processes, emotional regulation, and sluggishness of thought and action. We are also pioneering studies involving individual- and group-based CBT and noninvasive neuromodulatory interventions. It is hoped that these studies will provide us with insight into unresolved questions and open new pathways for personalized treatment. Psychiatry, Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Lenard A. Adler, MD, is a professor of psychiatry and child and adolescent psychiatry. His research and clinical interests center on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults. He serves as vice chair for education in the Department of Psychiatry and director of the Adult ADHD Program. Presenters at the 2023 APA Annual Meeting In May, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Psychiatric Association’s 2023 annual meeting in San Francisco. The theme was “Innovate, Collaborate, Motivate: Charting the Future of Mental Health.” Saturday, May 20 Your Mental Health Starts in Your Gut Microbiota Gia Merlo, MD : 8–9:30 am : Room 160, Moscone South, Upper Mezzanine Metabolic Regulators of Psychological Stress and Brain Trauma 3:45–5:15 pm : Room 153, Moscone South, Upper Mezzanine Fentanyl Sneaks into Social Media: High Risk Adolescent Substance Use in the Online Era Jose Vito, MD Co-Authors : Katrina B. Kostro, MD, Ryan Badolato, MD : 1:30–3 pm Symptom, Perpetuator, Catalyst: The Impact of Homelessness on the Trajectory of Mental Health Care : Daniel Laor, MD (Dis)Trust Your Gut: Serotonin and the GI Tract : Aydar Shaildayev, MD Sunday, May 21 Overcoming Disparities in Alcohol Treatment Among BIPOC Women : Room 211, Moscone South, Second Level Exploring Cannabidiol’s Efficacy in the Treatment of Alcohol Use Disorder, PTSD, and Traumatic Brain Injury Discussant: 10:30 am–noon : Room 303, Moscone South, Third Level Impact of Telemedicine on Utilization of Psychiatric Resources in New York City During the COVID-19 Pandemic : Sarah J. Ricklan, MD, M.Phil. NYU Langone Co-Author Carina M. Lorenz, MD : 3:45–5:15 pm Monday, May 22 The Promise of Precision Medicine for Treating Alcohol Use Disorder and PTSD 1:30–3 pm Psychiatrist Knowledge and Attitudes Regarding HIV Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis Across Three Sites Mark V. Bradley, MD Tuesday, May 23 Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Psychiatry Research : Room 201, Moscone South, Second Level At-Home Sublingual Ketamine for Depression: Large Scale Outcomes and Safety Matteo Malgaroli, PhD : Room 154, Moscone South, Upper Mezzanine A Subacute Inpatient Unit for People Experiencing Homelessness and Serious Mental Illness in NYC Carine Nzodom, MD : Room 212, Moscone South, Second Level Racial/Ethnic Disparities in Engagement and Clinical Outcomes from a Collaborative Care Model for Depression and Anxiety : Kelly Yang A Review of the Clinical Trials Derived from the Systematic Reviews of Psilocybin Use in Substance Use Disorders Ritvij Satodiya, MD Wednesday, May 24 To Look or Not to Look: Vicarious Trauma from Reviewing Graphic Images Raina Aggarwal, MD : Rooms 305/309, Moscone South, Third Level “No One Leaves Home Unless Home Is the Mouth of a Shark”: Collaborating to Advance the Emotional Health of LGBTQ Individuals in Crisis Zones Omar Fattal, MD, MPH : Room 214, Moscone South, Second Level Virtual Summer Course Lifestyle Psychiatry for Optimal Performance and Mental Health NYU Langone Faculty Available : June 26–August 25 Transgender and Gender Diverse Care: Progress and Opportunities in Hormone Therapy Michele B. Glodowski, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Specializing in transgender endocrinology, Michele B. Glodowski, MD , adds uncommon expertise to NYU Langone Health’s comprehensive transgender health program where she runs the gender-affirming hormone therapy clinic. Here, she discusses the evolving landscape of hormone therapy, the need for studies that capture the diverse concerns of transgender and gender diverse patients, and strategies the clinic is pursuing to advance individualized care. A Role for Progesterone in Feminizing Hormone Therapy A combination of estrogen and anti-androgens is the most studied regimen for feminizing hormone therapy, and there is controversy regarding the inclusion of progesterone. Any developments regarding the benefits versus risks of progesterone? Dr. Glodowski: Unfortunately, we’re still in need of bigger and better studies. The safety data that we have for progesterone, which points to concerns regarding the risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular disease, is based off studies in postmenopausal cis women with a mean age of 65. We’re missing specific data for our patient population on both benefit and safety. Keeping that in mind, for most young, healthy patients, it’s probably safe. So we’re using it pending better studies. Assessing Metabolic Changes in Non-Binary Transmasculine Patients Is your clinic involved in any current studies? We are doing a small retrospective cohort study assessing metabolic changes in non-binary transmasculine patients. There’s a lot of data, mainly from Europe and the Netherlands, looking at metabolic changes in transgender men and finding increases in blood pressure, cholesterol, and weight. There have been few studies with gender non-binary patients who are on lower doses of testosterone. We wonder if it makes a difference, especially when thinking about the uterine lining or abnormal uterine bleeding. Our study is looking at a number of metabolic parameters in non-binary transmasculine patients at our clinic before starting hormone therapy and then after. Expanding Access to Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy What elements are important when building a gender-affirming hormone therapy clinic? Dr. Glodowski: Our program has several unique strengths. The first is that appointments at our clinic are reserved specifically for patients seeking gender-affirming hormone therapy. As general endocrinologists and primary care doctors, we have many patients looking to schedule with us. Establishing a dedicated clinic helps those seeking gender-affirming hormone therapy access that specialized care now. “Establishing a dedicated clinic helps those seeking gender-affirming hormone therapy access that specialized care now.” The other strength is our experienced surgeons. Our team performs more than 550 gender-affirming surgeries each year. From plastic surgeons to urologists, we have surgical expertise available to help with those components of their care. A Unique Area for Individualized Care Given the unique need for a personalized approach in transgender health, what are you learning at NYU Langone about delivering that level of individualized treatment? I can’t highlight enough how important it is in this field to have an individualized and patient-centered approach. For a patient who identifies as gender non-binary, we might target a different testosterone level, or they might remain on testosterone for varying amounts of time. For a transfeminine patient for whom erectile function is important, we might target a slightly higher testosterone level. At our clinic, we establish goals and expectations upfront so that we’re all on the same page. We’re also flexible. If goals change, we can change the regimen. Training Early-Career Physicians in Transgender Health How do you see training and education moving forward in this rapidly evolving area? Educating future endocrinologists and doctors is a key step to expanding access to transgender care. Even if you’re not going to be providing hormone therapy, you should have a basic understanding of transgender health no matter what you specialize in. For example, if you’re a breast cancer surgeon, you will see a patient who is transfeminine or transmasculine and you should understand each patient’s individual risk. “Even if you’re not going to be providing hormone therapy, you should have a basic understanding of transgender health no matter what you specialize in.” We have a strong group of fellows in the endocrine division who rotate through our clinic. In addition, medical students, residents, or other fellows with a particular interest in hormone therapy often shadow me as well. Michele B. Glodowski, MD, is a clinical instructor in medicine. She specializes in integrated transgender endocrinology and care. Novel Pathway Reveals How Large, Intact Lipoproteins Traverse the Endothelium Endothelial Cells. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff A recent study in the Journal of Clinical Investigation has revealed a new pathway by which endothelial cells internalize and distribute dietary lipids to surrounding tissue. The findings not only provide clarity regarding the movement of lipids across the endothelium but may also explain the biological process underlying cutaneous eruptive xanthomas, lesions in the skin composed of lipid-laden macrophages. “While this study focused on identifying a clinical finding, it is most significant for illustrating a new pathway for lipid delivery to tissues.” “While this study focused on identifying a clinical finding, it is most significant for illustrating a new pathway for lipid delivery to tissues,” says , senior author on the study and the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman, Jr. Professor of Endocrinology. Lipid Delivery Pathways For skin and other tissues with continuous, non-fenestrated capillaries, lipid delivery requires the regulated movement of lipoproteins or their components across the endothelial cell barrier. Atherogenic low-density lipoproteins (LDL) can be taken up and transcytosed across endothelial cells as intact particles. Recently, studies have helped define the specific receptors on the artery wall involved in this process. By allowing the transfer of LDL across endothelial cells, these receptors promote cholesterol deposition into the arterial wall and initiate atherosclerosis. In contrast, lipid delivery from larger lipoproteins, like chylomicrons, has long been thought to hinge upon lipolysis at the capillary surface, most notably by the enzyme lipoprotein lipase (LPL). Docked at the apical membrane of endothelial cells, LPL cleaves apart chylomicrons, with the released fatty acids then readily taken up by endothelial cells and distributed to surrounding tissue. “However, an increasing body of clinical and experimental evidence suggests the existence of alternative pathways for endothelial chylomicron-derived lipid uptake independent of LPL activity,” wrote the authors. Uptake of Intact Chylomicrons To test this, Goldberg and colleagues studied the movement of chylomicrons into endothelial cells in a setting of LPL deficiency. In doing so, they discovered an LPL-exclusive pathway by which endothelial cells internalize intact chylomicrons, metabolize them in lysosomes, and either store or release the lipids. The investigators further demonstrated that the released lipids can be taken up by skin macrophages and lead to lipid accumulation, as is seen in eruptive xanthomas. The novel pathway may help explain the common development of cutaneous xanthomas in patients with genetic LPL deficiency. “Our results imply that uptake of chylomicrons by endothelial cells may be an important and under-appreciated pathway for the delivery of circulating triglyceride-rich lipoprotein-derived lipids that is exclusive of intravascular lipolysis,” wrote the authors. Beyond Skin Macrophages “Still to be determined is whether this pathway will also deliver lipids to other sites, such as to cells within the artery wall that cause atherosclerosis, the most common form of heart disease.” Although the study focused on skin macrophages, Goldberg and colleagues suspect that uptake and processessing of chylomicrons by endothelial cells likely plays a large role the in the delivery of lipids to many parenchymal tissues. “Still to be determined is whether this pathway will also deliver lipids to other sites, such as to cells within the artery wall that cause atherosclerosis, the most common form of heart disease,” Dr. Goldberg says. Ira J. Goldberg, MD, is the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman, Jr. Professor of Endocrinology and director of the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism. His research focuses on abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism, macrovascular disease in diabetes, and the role of triglycerides in atherosclerosis. AI-Driven Screening for Anxiety & Depression New research shows an artificial intelligence (AI) tool effectively detected distress in hospital workers’ conversations with their therapists. Journal of Medical Internet Research AI , the findings suggest a potential new use of AI to screen for depression and anxiety. During the COVID-19 pandemic, virtual psychotherapy grew as a treatment option for strained healthcare workers. Researchers examined a series of digitalized session transcripts using an AI technique called natural language processing (NLP). They identified common phrases used by patients and tied the terms to mental illness. NLP combs through data to pinpoint keywords that capture the meaning of a body of text. The study, led by NYU Langone Health psychologist , is the first application of NLP to identify markers of psychological distress in healthcare workers, according to the authors. “Our findings show that those working on the hospital floor during the most intense moments of the pandemic faced unique challenges that put them at higher risk for serious mental health concerns.” “Our findings show that those working on the hospital floor during the most intense moments of the pandemic faced unique challenges on top of their regular job-related stressors that put them at higher risk for serious mental health concerns,” says Dr. Malgaroli. Teletherapy Transcripts as Screening Tools Analysis involved treatment transcripts from more than 800 physicians, nurses, and emergency medical staff. Also included were transcripts from 820 people receiving psychotherapy during the first U.S. wave of COVID-19 but not working in healthcare. The study revealed that among healthcare workers, those who spoke to their therapists specifically about working in a hospital unit, lack of sleep, or mood issues were more likely to get an anxiety and depression diagnosis compared with healthcare workers who did not discuss these topics. These risks were not seen in workers from other fields who discussed the pandemic or their jobs. “These results suggest that natural language processing may one day become an effective screening tool for detecting and tracking anxiety and depression symptoms.” Naomi M. Simon, MD “These results suggest that natural language processing may one day become an effective screening tool for detecting and tracking anxiety and depression symptoms,” says study co-author , a professor and vice chair in the While the overall heightened risk for anxiety and depression among those who discussed working in a hospital was small (3.6 percent), the study authors say they expect the model to capture additional signs of distress as more data are added. Confidential Self-Assessments Dr. Malgaroli notes that another potential use for this model could be to provide healthcare workers a way to record themselves answering brief questions. The NLP model could potentially detect their risks for mental health conditions and provide confidential feedback, including resources to seek additional support if they chose it. The researchers caution that the report only captured the mental state of patients early in their treatment. The team now plans to explore how the discussion topics change over time as therapy progresses. Matteo Malgaroli, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. He specializes in digital mental health at the intersection of psychiatry, AI, and technology. Naomi M. Simon, MD, is a professor and vice chair for research faculty development and mentorship in the Department of Psychiatry. Her research interests include clinical and translational research in the understanding and treatment of anxiety and stress-related disorders and prolonged grief. Podcast NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry Podcast Listen now to hear luminaries in the field discuss the latest research-informed interventions. More Online Game Playing Fuels Call for Addiction Awareness Psychiatrists urge increased screening for symptoms of internet gaming disorder. Expanding Support for Perinatal Mental Illness New program tackles access challenges for lifesaving mental health services. Overcoming Injustice in Addiction Medicine Inaugural American Society of Addiction Medicine award recipient discusses the shared responsibility to redress inequities. Testing Pharmacy-Based Harm Reduction Programs for Drug Users A new study reveals overwhelming support among pharmacists for participation in interventions. Bisphosphonates and Atypical Femoral Fractures: An Update A 61-year-old female showing features of atypical diaphyseal femoral fracture. Reprinted under a Creative Commons license from Rajput I, Kumar J, Siddiqui A A, et al. (May 17, 2019) Surgical Fixation of Atypical Femur Fractures in Bisphosphonate-treated Patients. Cureus 11(5): e4690. Valerie Peck, MD , is a recognized expert in osteoporosis and metabolic bone diseases. Here, she discusses the evidence for bisphosphonates in the treatment of osteoporosis, the need for provider education about atypical femoral fractures, and strategies the clinic is pursuing to advance both detection and prevention. Benefits and Risks of Bisphosphonates Bisphosphonates are often recommended as a first-line treatment for postmenopausal osteoporosis, although there is controversy regarding the association between bisphosphonate use and atypical femoral fractures. Any updates regarding the benefits versus risks of bisphosphonates? Dr. Peck: After the earliest case reports on bisphosphonate-related atypical femoral fractures back in 2007, we began assessing a series of these patients and have been following them since that time. Atypical femoral fractures were always uncommon, but today the number of patients presenting with atypical fractures is markedly decreased. Essentially, there are two clinical scenarios of concern. Some patients receive bisphosphonate therapy for too long, and should stop, while other high-risk patients should continue to receive therapy, and choose to stop. Balancing Prevention and Detection How do we find a balance between the detection of atypical femoral fractures and prevention of vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fractures? For most patients, the reduction in vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fracture risk greatly outweighs atypical fracture risk. However, as the duration of bisphosphonate therapy increases, the risk of atypical fractures also increases. If too many patients discontinue bisphosphonate therapy, we may see a reverse trend with an increase in the number of regular fractures. The majority of clinicians agree that drug holidays are beneficial for many patients. Typically, after three to five years of therapy, clinicians should reevaluate fracture risk by measuring bone densities and reassessing risk factors, and determine whether to continue the drug. “After three to five years of therapy, clinicians should reevaluate fracture risk by measuring bone densities and reassessing risk factors, and determine whether to continue the drug.” Guideline Recommendations Are there clinical practice guideline recommendations to inform the optimal duration of bisphosphonate therapy? Currently there are clinical management recommendations but not a consistent clinical guideline. Within these recommendations, each patient’s duration of therapy needs to be individualized. Our current research is focused on populations at higher risk for atypical femoral fractures, including those who are younger and more active, Asian populations, and those with certain femur geometries. Genetics is also a relevant risk factor, and research studies are underway. In patients at high risk for fracture, longer-term bisphosphonate therapy may be indicated. In many of these cases, switching to an anabolic agent or another therapy is more appropriate. Optimizing Strategies for Detection What are your recommendations for the detection of atypical fractures in patients on long-term bisphosphonate therapy? If a patient has been on bisphosphonate therapy for five years or longer, and they are going to continue therapy, or switch to another antiresorptive drug, clinicians should assess for early signs of atypical femoral fracture. Initially, we detect these early incomplete fractures using X-ray imaging of the femur, where a very astute radiologist can detect early signs of focal cortical thickening. More recently, using a DXA [dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry] scanner with the most up-to-date software, we’ve been able to scan the full length of the femur to assess for early signs of cortical thickening. “Using a DXA [dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry] scanner with the most up-to-date software, we’ve been able to scan the full length of the femur to assess for early signs of cortical thickening.” In this way, we can detect early incomplete atypical fractures when patients come to clinic for routine bone densities. The software is only available at some of our sites, but is a unique feature of NYU Langone Health’s osteoporosis unit. The availability of DXA machines with this new software could allow for both prevention of complete atypical fractures and greater individualization of treatment, resulting in great benefit for patients. Additional Resources Where can readers learn more about the early detection of atypical fractures for patients on bisphosphonate therapy? If readers want to learn more, I’d refer them to the 2019 International Society for Clinical Densitometry Official Position . I was involved in the development of these recommendations as a member of the working group. Thyroid Disorders, Bone Health Valerie Peck, MD, is a clinical professor of medicine. Her research focuses on thyroid diseases and osteoporosis, including the link between bisphosphonate use and atypical femoral fractures. Presenters at the 2023 AHA Scientific Sessions This November, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and clinicians join colleagues from around the world at the American Heart Association’s 2023 Scientific Sessions in Philadelphia. View At this year’s AHA Scientific Sessions, , will be named a 2023 AHA Distinguished Scientist. This award recognizes individuals who have made major contributions to the affairs of the scientific council over a continuing period, and who have made substantial professional contributions to the field represented by the council. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year. See a full list of NYU Langone presenters here Award Presentation AHA 2023 Distinguished Scientist Awardee Saturday, November 11, 8 am : Main Event I Friday, November 10 Visit Volume Influences the Effectiveness of Electronic Tools to Improve Heart Failure Care Leora Horwitz, MD Stuart D. Katz, MD 11:45­–11:55 am 102AB Saturday, November 11 Resuscitative TEE – Ready for Prime Time? Carlos L. Alviar, MD 10:17–10:26 am Poster Abstract Electrocardiographic Correlates of Cardiac MRI Finding in Women with MINOCA Mitchell Pleasure, Harmony Reynolds, MD : 11:30 am–12:45 pm Zone 4, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 Panel Participant Controversies in High-Risk Percutaneous Coronary Interventions: It Doesn’t Matter How You Do It, As Long As You Do It Well! : 2:20–2:45 pm : 107AB Sunday, November 12 Clinical Trials in Cardiogenic Shock: Challenges Faced and Lessons Learned : 8–8:12 am : Main Event II Utility of CR in Unique Populations: SCAD, INOCA : 9–9:15 am : 104AB In Vitro Aspirin Responsiveness Can Predict Platelet Hyperreactivity and Cardiovascular Risk Jeffery S. Berger, MD , Sarah Liberow : Zone 1, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 Heart Transplant in Older Adults: Outcomes in the Modern Era of Transplant Jennifer A. Cruz, DO , Stephanie Golob, MD, Bernard S. Kadosh, MD Haider Nazeer, MD : 3:30–4:45 pm : Zone 2, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 Monday, November 13 Digital Health Interventions for the Optimization of Postpartum Cardiovascular Health: A Systematic Review : Darcy Banco, MD, MPH, Dorice Vieira, MPH : 10:30–11:45 am : Zone 3, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 A Wearable Accelerometry and AI Framework for Phenotyping Step-Count Trajectories in Older Adults Undergoing Cardiac Rehabilitation Souptik Barua , Stephanie Peña, Kelly Tellez AI Refines QTc Interval Estimation in Atrial Fibrillation Lior Jankelson, MD, PhD To date, lack of an accurate mechanism for measuring the QTc interval has represented a significant challenge for clinicians, especially among high-risk patient groups such as those with atrial fibrillation (A-fib). New research from NYU Langone Health suggests estimating the QTc interval using artificial intelligence (AI) could allow clinicians to rule out prolongation of the QTc interval associated with risk of torsades de pointes. A research team led by cardiologist , developed the AI-driven QT correction algorithm to rule out prolongation of the QTc interval in A-fib. A report published in JACC: Clinical Electrophysiology shows the tool could be useful in cases where a concurrent sinus electrocardiogram (ECG) is not available, potentially addressing both QT measurement and correction problems. “Determination of the QTc interval is of critical importance. And in A-fib, it is very difficult to accurately measure the QTc,” Dr. Jankelson says. Leveraging the Dataset The researchers’ convolutional neural network (CNN)–based model was designed to maximize objectivity and clinical applicability. Their approach incorporated the ECG signal as well as general patient and cardiac-specific data, such as sex, race, QRS duration, heart rate, and more into the predictions. “We identified patients with a 10-second 12-lead ECG in A-fib within 10 days of a sinus ECG with similar QRS durations,” Dr. Jankelson explains. The full dataset included 6,432 patients in A-fib with an average age of 71 years. The data were randomly divided to generate subsets, with 60 percent allotted to training, 20 percent to validation, and 20 percent to testing. Dr. Jankelson and his team evaluated the model for predicting the QTc value in the sinus ECG based on an input of the A-fib ECG waveform and its associated features. High Degree of Accuracy After training, the model performed best for ruling out QTc prolongation, exhibiting high negative predictive value (0.82 in males and 0.92 in females) and specificity (0.92 in males and 0.97 in females). In addition, approximately 84 percent and 97 percent of the predictions were contained within 1 standard deviation (SD) and 2 SD from the sinus QTc interval. The model also outperformed the AFQTc method, exhibiting significantly narrower error ranges. “Our model applied to A-fib ECGs accurately predicted the sinus QTc interval, outperforming current alternatives and exhibiting a high negative predictive value.” “To our knowledge, this is the first published deep neural network developed for QTc prediction in A-fib ECGs,” Dr. Jankelson says. “Our model applied to A-fib ECGs accurately predicted the sinus QTc interval, outperforming current alternatives and exhibiting a high negative predictive value.” Improvements Over Time As with most AI-driven models, performance improves over time. Dr. Jankelson says the model might therefore be used to inform clinical decision-making in various patient cases. “For example, QT-prolonging medications for the management of A-fib or comorbid conditions could potentially be safely prescribed, using data derived from the AI tool,” Dr. Jankelson explains. “The clinical impact of this AI tool is potentially great with integration into existing EMRs or commercially available ECG software,” he adds. Lior Jankelson, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of the Inherited Arrhythmia Program at NYU Langone’s Heart Rhythm Center. His research interests include artificial intelligence, atrial fibrillation, and cardiac device management. Femoral Artery Homograft Relieves Coronary Stenosis in Young Adult with CHD A New Strategy to Tackle Ostial Stenosis A 22-year-old man with congenital heart disease recently underwent a coronary arterioplasty—an innovative approach to alleviate stenosis for a patient who underwent an arterial switch operation (ASO) as an infant for d-transposition of the great arteries. The case was recently described in the Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery Techniques While ostial stenosis or kinking is a well-recognized complication of ASO, the patient’s anatomy did not lend itself well to more traditional repairs. This patient had a single coronary artery that arose from the right-facing sinus before bifurcating. It split into a widely patent and dominant right coronary artery and a left main coronary artery (LMCA) that was severely stenosed at its origin. The atypical course of the LMCA along the aortic wall also presented challenges. “Catheterization and percutaneous angioplasty of the LMCA with possible coronary stenting was deemed unpredictable in the long run with a risk of occluding the adjacent right coronary artery. We had to choose surgery,” says , a cardiologist specializing in adult congenital heart disease. “Onlay grafting with a femoral artery homograft is a viable solution given its pliability, strength, and hemostatic qualities.” The care team, which included primary surgeon , both pediatric and adult congenital cardiothoracic surgeons, also decided against coronary artery bypass grafting because of the patient’s young age. Instead, the team made an incision across the LMCA ostium—well past the stenosis—to fit a 6 millimeter femoral artery homograft that had been fashioned into an oval-shaped patch. The patch augmented the narrowed segment of LMCA, the area of bifurcation, and the opening of the single coronary artery. After patch placement, both coronary arteries were widely patent on angiogram and the patient was discharged on aspirin. “Complex and sometimes silent proximal coronary narrowings can occur years following the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries,” Dr. Mosca says. “Options including intracoronary stenting or coronary artery bypass grafting can prove suboptimal, particularly in younger adults. No perfect solution exists, however, onlay grafting with a femoral artery homograft is a viable solution given its pliability, strength, and hemostatic qualities.” Unusual Anatomy Informs Approach Coronary computed tomography angiogram showing stenosis (yellow arrow). SOURCE: Dan G. Halpern, MD. Catheterization and coronary computed tomography angiogram revealed decades after an arterial switch procedure that a 22-year-old patient had a single coronary artery (yellow arrow) bifurcated into a dominant right coronary artery and an LMCA that was severely stenosed at its origin. Patch Augmentation Using Homograft Material Surgeon’s view during the procedure to relieve the stenosis. SOURCE: Dan G. Halpern, MD. Surgeons extended the aortotomy incision into the proximal LMCA past the stenosis. Then, they placed a femoral artery homograft onlay patch across the region and slightly onto the ascending aorta. The patch’s natural endothelial lining theoretically makes it less thrombogenic as compared to other types of artificial patches, Dr. Mosca says. A Successful Follow-Up Coronary computed tomography angiogram 6 months following the procedure. SOURCE: Dan G. Halpern, MD. Six months after the procedure, coronary computed tomography angiogram revealed a patent left (red arrow) as well as right main coronary artery. The patient was also asymptomatic at follow-up. Dan G. Halpern, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and the medical director of the Adult Congenital Heart Disease Program. His clinical interests include care for adults with congenital heart defects, aortopathies, and pregnant patients with heart disease. Gaining Long-Term Perspective on Coronary Disease Management While revascularization in acute coronary syndromes (ACS) and myocardial infarction (MI) decreases mortality and recurrent MI, outcomes in stable ischemic heart disease (SIHD) are less well understood. Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, the ISCHEMIA-EXTEND study is the long-term follow-up of randomized, participants in the ISCHEMIA ISCHEMIA-CKD trials. “Initial results from ISCHEMIA showed durable improvements in angina control and quality of life with initial invasive management—but no differences in major adverse cardiac events and mortality,” says , the Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology and a leader of many complex international clinical trials. Building Upon Earlier Results The ISCHEMIA and ISCHEMIA-CKD investigators and their global partners presented the initial findings at the American Heart Association (AHA) Scientific Sessions in November 2019 and published the results of both trials in in April 2020. VIDEO: Dr. Judith S. Hochman discusses interim results of the landmark ISCHEMIA study at the American Heart Association’s 2022 Scientific Sessions. Among patients with stable coronary disease and moderate or severe ischemia, the researchers did not find evidence that an initial invasive management strategy, as compared with an initial conservative management strategy, lowered the risk of ischemic cardiovascular events or death from any cause. In ISCHEMIA-CKD, they observed similar results among patients with advanced chronic kidney disease. Moreover, there was an early excess of peri-procedural MI and a late reduction in spontaneous MI in both studies. Building upon these results, ISCHEMIA-EXTEND was pioneered to assess whether an initial invasive strategy reduces long-term all-cause mortality as compared with an initial conservative strategy over an extended period of follow-up. At its launch, more than 5,000 participants worldwide entered the trial. “It is imperative to assess long-term all-cause mortality following these two different management strategies.” “Prior evidence shows that spontaneous MI has a larger impact on subsequent death than most peri-procedural MIs,” Dr. Hochman explains. “Thus, it is imperative to assess long-term all-cause mortality following these two different management strategies.” A Continued Investigation AHA Scientific Sessions 2022 , that took place November 5 to 7 in Chicago, Illinois, and virtually, Dr. Hochman presented the interim results of ISCHEMIA-EXTEND on behalf of the research group. After a median follow-up of 5.7 years, the researchers found that initial invasive management compared with initial conservative management resulted in no difference in all-cause mortality, but there was a lower risk of cardiovascular mortality and higher risk of non-cardiovascular mortality. “These findings provide important evidence for whether to add invasive management to guideline-directed medical therapy.” “The previously observed excess of non-cardiovascular mortality with initial invasive strategy persisted,” Dr. Hochman says. “These findings provide important evidence for whether to add invasive management to guideline-directed medical therapy.” What Lies Ahead Dr. Hochman emphasizes that these findings are consistent with prior randomized trials of revascularization versus medical therapy alone, which have reported similar rates of all-cause mortality between groups. Next, the researchers will continue to follow surviving participants into 2025 for a projected median of approximately 10 years to increase the precision around these mortality estimates. “We believe these data will add to the evidence base for shared decision-making between patients and their physicians,” Dr. Hochman explains. “Providers should engage in shared decision-making with patients to discuss treatment preferences.” Judith S. Hochman, MD, the Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, is considered one of the world’s leading cardiovascular clinical trialists. She has led numerous international studies on the management of ischemic heart disease and the pathophysiology and management of cardiogenic shock. Guiding Patients Through Oocyte Cryopreservation James A. Grifo, MD, PhD , has devoted a large part of his career to advancing planned oocyte cryopreservation, allowing women to postpone childbearing whilst maintaining the potential of having a biological child. Nationally renowned as an expert on reproductive endocrinology, Dr. Grifo is convinced of the promise of this fertility preservation technique. Here, he discusses how the approach has evolved and how specialists at the center are helping patients decide if the procedure is right for them. Progress Over Decades Cryopreservation techniques have advanced over the past three decades, leading to higher success rates. What are the latest numbers and recommendations? Dr. Grifo: Despite the growing demand, outcome data are scarce. We estimate that cryopreserving 20 or more mature oocytes under 38 years of age provides a 70 percent chance of live birth . The primary factors for success are age, oocyte quantity, and number of oocyte cryopreservation cycles. Younger age is linked with the retrieval of more oocytes and a higher chance of live birth. While there is no consensus on the ideal age for oocyte cryopreservation, we usually recommend cryopreserving oocytes before 35 years of age. Beginning the process older often necessitates more oocytes—therefore more oocyte cryopreservation cycles. “We cannot simply say that 20 or 30 oocytes is enough—even for young women. The optimal number of oocytes changes for each patient based on their personal family-building goals.” We have seen patients have successful deliveries after freezing eggs at ages up to 43, though success rates decline after the age of 39. In general, the possibility of success for a 41-year-old is low, and while we offer the procedure to those over 41, we don’t encourage it. In terms of oocyte quantity, we cannot simply say that 20 or 30 oocytes is enough—even for young women. The optimal number of oocytes changes for each patient based on their personal family-building goals. Patients should also be informed that completing multiple oocyte cryopreservation cycles increases the chances of live birth, even when a reasonable number of oocytes are obtained from the first cryopreservation cycle. Psychological Considerations Weighing the pros and cons can be challenging for patients. What are some key considerations and how do you guide patients through the process? The decision to pursue oocyte cryopreservation is a difficult one to make, considering the mix of parental desires, financial considerations, time constraints, medical concerns, and even ethical dilemmas. Decision timing is another important factor as a long delay may lead to fewer oocytes, lowering the chances of live birth. Once a patient decides to pursue egg freezing, they may face anxiety related to the process, time requirements, number of oocytes collected, and long-term outcomes. Additionally, the process may be stressful because it can create doubts about one’s future partner or path in life. We acknowledge this stress, emphasizing that it’s experienced by most patients undergoing fertility preservation. At the center, we offer counselling to patients undergoing the procedure, as it can help them to navigate their feelings and stressors, and to develop coping strategies. We also connect patients with therapists, financial advisors, and other resources. Overall Satisfaction When a patient considers oocyte cryopreservation, what are the main reasons for following through versus deciding against the procedure? Are patients generally happy with their decision? Our local data suggests that the primary reasons for not pursuing oocyte cryopreservation were financial and time constraints. However, larger studies are needed to better evaluate the rate of decision regret among women who consider the process but ultimately decide not to proceed. “Despite the stress of the process, the vast majority of patients who undergo oocyte cryopreservation say they are happy with their decision, even if they never use their eggs.” According to national survey data, the most common reason for planning oocyte cryopreservation is lack of a partner, with up to 88 percent of women citing this as their primary motivation. Many of these women want to be parents but have not found the right partner—voicing that they do not want to settle simply because their natural fertility window is closing. Despite the stress of the process, the vast majority— 89 percent —of patients who undergo oocyte cryopreservation say they are happy with their decision, even if they never use their eggs. James A. Grifo, MD, PhD, is director of the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility and the NYU Langone Fertility Center. He has pioneered numerous techniques in preimplantation genetic diagnosis and preimplantation genetic screening. His research centers on assisted reproduction, with a focus on egg freezing technology. Achieving Mastery in Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery Ted T. Lee, MD , an internationally renowned expert in minimally invasive gynecologic surgery, has joined NYU Langone Health as director of the Division of Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery and chief of surgical innovation for gynecology in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology A past president of the American Association of Gynecologic Laparoscopists and a sought-after lecturer and surgeon, Dr. Lee has contributed significantly to research and advancements in the field of gynecologic surgery, particularly the diagnosis and treatment of endometriosis. Here, he discusses his career transition, the evolution of the specialty, and how to create a culture of surgical education. Embracing a New Opportunity Dr. Lee, you recently joined NYU Langone Health. What drew you to the institution? Dr. Lee: Overcoming barriers and expanding the surgical envelope has been a theme of my career and of my time in leadership. At 14 years old, I left my home country to attend boarding school in the United States. This career transition feels similar, and I’m excited to take on the challenge. At 14 years old, I left my home country to attend boarding school in the United States. This career transition feels similar. NYU Langone is a world-class institution committed to providing the highest quality of gynecologic care. This type of environment appeals to me; I knew it was the right fit. In my new roles, I’ll not only be overseeing minimally invasive surgical services for common and complex gynecologic conditions, I’ll also be overseeing the comprehensive care and fertility-sparing programs as part of NYU Langone’s The Evolving Surgical Paradigm You’ve written and spoken extensively about minimally invasive gynecologic surgical procedures, especially in peer-reviewed journals and invited talks at national conferences. Reflecting on this changing surgical landscape, what should the field be thinking about going forward? For the past 20 years, minimally invasive techniques have been widely adopted in surgical practices and have become the standard approach for treating benign gynecologic conditions. Virtually all benign gynecologic conditions, in my view, are now best addressed with minimally invasive techniques. “The success of surgery is not solely determined by the robot; it’s the magician, not the wand, that holds the magic.” Despite major breakthroughs in imaging and robotics, I fear that there is an overreliance on these modalities in our field. To make an accurate diagnosis of endometriosis, imaging must be combined with a detailed history and physical examination. One must not forget the basics and neglect the art of medicine. It should be noted, also, that the risks and benefits of laparoscopic surgery can vary by the individual institution or surgeon. The success of surgery is not solely determined by the robot; it’s the magician, not the wand, that holds the magic. Mentoring Trainees and Junior Faculty You dedicate significant time to education and mentorship. From a leadership position, what is your approach to equipping the next generation of surgeons with the skills to succeed in their careers? Educating future surgeons and mentoring junior faculty is key to expanding access to high-quality surgical care. The successful operation of a surgical education program is nearly impossible without the support of divisional leadership. At some institutions, securing support for education can be a hurdle, as the financial return on investment for surgical education is not always clearly defined. “Alone, I cannot achieve my goal of training more expert surgeons. Teaching more teachers is my objective.” Few institutions prioritize education and mentorship to the level that NYU Langone does. In my new position, surgical education will be a top priority, with a specific emphasis on surgical anatomy and advanced robotic and laparoscopic surgical techniques. Anecdotally, several of my former fellows now hold leadership positions at major academic institutions across the nation and overseas. They in turn are training the next generation of young gynecologic surgeons. Alone, I cannot achieve my goal of training more expert surgeons. Teaching more teachers is my objective. What thoughts would you share with a peer aiming to foster a culture of surgical education? Cultivating a teaching culture requires a team effort, not the work of a single person. The best way to ensure success is by shifting the departmental culture. The first step is for the leadership to show support and encourage faculty to take part in teaching and mentorship. True success lies in the active participation of dedicated core groups of faculty members. Ted T. Lee, MD, is director of the Division of Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery and chief of surgical innovation for gynecology in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. He specializes in minimally invasive gynecologic surgery. Alert Banners Increase Prescribing Rates of Heart Failure Medication Alerts flagging patients who may benefit from mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) more than doubled prescriptions. TOaST: a Thyroidectomy Innovation Spares Patients Highly Visible Scars Conventional thyroidectomy entails an anterior neck scar ranging from 1 to 2 inches in length—serving as a highly visible reminder to patients of their thyroid disease and a marker to others about their medical histories. Within the 150-year-history of thyroidectomy, surgeons have only recently begun to apply endoscopic tools to avoid the visible scar on the lower neck. Initially pioneered in Asia, these endoscopic techniques include the TOETVA (transoral endoscopic thyroidectomy vestibular approach). “The TOETVA procedure was a milestone in that it eliminated a skin incision and scar from thyroidectomy by putting the incisions inside the mouth under the lower lip area,” says , an endocrine surgery specialist. Dr. Suh was among the first U.S. surgeons to travel to Asia to study this technique and introduce it on the West Coast through a program at the University of California San Francisco. At NYU Langone Health, Dr. Suh is continuing to pioneer the application of endoscopic techniques to thyroidectomy, including a modified transoral approach that can resolve shortcomings of the original TOETVA technique. “TOETVA may have limitations, including the size of the specimen that can be removed through the middle incision without disruption as well as prolonged discomfort at the chin,” says Dr. Suh. TOaST: A Modified Transoral Approach The transoral and submental technique (TOaST), is a modified transoral procedure that eliminates the need for significant dissection of the chin by creating an effectively invisible submental incision. By substituting the submental incision for the central intraoral incision used in the TOEVTA procedure, it can reduce potential for dissection-related complications and shorten the path from the incision to the thyroid gland. article in the Journal of Surgical Research , Dr. Suh and colleagues reported on the initial experience of 14 TOaST procedures between 2017 and 2018. Subjects included five patients with benign thyroid nodules, three with cytologically indeterminate nodules, three with papillary thyroid cancers, two with Graves’ disease, and one patient with a multinodular goiter. The technique was demonstrated to be safe in this series, with an extremely low rate of complications overall and no permanent complications such as recurrent laryngeal nerve injury and neck hematoma. The cosmetic results were outstanding. Dr. Suh’s subsequent, larger experience with this technique confirms the results from this initial case series as well as its broader applicability. “About half of patients in a typical high-volume endocrine practice would be candidates for the procedure under currently accepted selection criteria,” Dr. Suh says. Scarring Not a “Minor Concern” “The idea of a visible scar is not a minor concern,” says Dr. Suh, who is a fierce patient advocate concerning the scar associated with conventional thyroidectomy and the impact it can have on self-perception. Although the TOaST procedure does leave a scar, it is functionally invisible, placed in the submental area that is often the incision site for aesthetic procedures such as neck lifts and liposuction. “There’s a common theme that comes out of my conversations with thyroidectomy patients: It’s not about vanity, but rather about seeing the scar every day in the mirror, reminding of the disease and unavoidably sharing private health information,” says Dr. Suh. He likens investing the extra effort to avoid scarring as analogous to reconstructive breast surgery after a mastectomy, rather than to an elective aesthetic surgery. “The most important takeaway is that visible scars matter to many people, and so it is our duty to respect that by working to address this issue for our patients.” Research into patients’ priorities and concerns confirms this idea. In a discrete choice experiment published in Thyroid , Dr. Suh and colleagues found that, while the risk of nerve injury, travel distance, and cost remain the most important factors for patients choosing among surgical approaches for thyroidectomy, cosmetic considerations also influence choices depending on patient age. Younger patients (up to 60 years old) are significantly more likely to choose surgical approaches with no visible neck scar and accept significant trade-offs, including increased out-of-pocket cost, extra travel distance, and even a slightly higher rate of complications. Dr. Suh is wary of overinterpretation of these and similar findings. “Patients may be willing to tolerate an increased risk of complications, but that doesn’t necessarily mean that we should as surgeons,” he says. “Thankfully, this is a moot point because these techniques appear to be very safe. I think the most important takeaway is that visible scars matter to many people, and so it is our duty to respect that by working to address this issue for our patients.” Offering Every Option for Fibroid Care Taraneh Shirazian, MD , a multidisciplinary program dedicated solely to women with fibroid disease, is one of a select few of its kind in the United States. Led by minimally invasive gynecologic surgeon , the group works to offer every option for women with fibroids, including medical management and active surveillance. Dr. Shirazian and her team are also actively engaged in research to improve care and treatment for women struggling with this condition. One recent study from the team, Journal of Minimally Invasive Gynecology , evaluated the relationship between prior treatment and current disease burden in women presenting to the center. The main finding: patients with fibroids who received prior treatment report worse symptoms and a diminished quality of life compared with those who have not yet received treatment. “Many patients are being treated inadequately or offered treatments that do not align with their life goals, leading to dissatisfaction,” says Dr. Shirazian. “Many patients are being treated inadequately or offered treatments that do not align with their life goals, leading to dissatisfaction.” The results suggest that those whose fibroid treatment has not been a success can benefit from receiving treatment at a dedicated fibroid center. Symptoms and Treatment Uterine fibroids are common benign growths of the uterus. While some women remain asymptomatic regardless of fibroid size, others experience burdensome symptoms that can include abdominal pain, urinary problems, pelvic pain and pressure, and heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding, Dr. Shirazian says. “Iron-deficiency anemia is a common issue for women with fibroid disease,” she adds. “Fibroid symptoms can greatly affect a woman’s quality of life.” The morbidity of uterine fibroids is underscored by the reliance on hysterectomy as the primary treatment option in much of the country, says Dr. Shirazian. “Because it results in the elimination of childbearing potential, hysterectomy can have a huge impact on overall health and wellbeing,” she explains. “Many women don’t feel comfortable with removing the uterus and can suffer social and emotional distress.” Myomectomy is the optimal surgical option for those seeking to remain fertile, Dr. Shirazian says, while uterine artery embolization and radiofrequency ablation are additional options to alleviate symptoms. In addition to surgery and such procedures, medical management represents another approach to addressing fibroids. This includes evidence-based drug therapies such as newer gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonists, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories, progestin and hormonal contraceptives, and tranexamic acid. “Many women experience fibroid symptoms for years, unaware that there are effective nonsurgical treatment options,” Dr. Shirazian says. Holistic approaches like diet modification, supplementation, and lifestyle changes may also alleviate symptoms and are used as additive strategies at the Center for Fibroid Care. Cases of Treatment Failure A recent study involved a survey of 302 patients seeking care at the Center for Fibroid Care. Of the 169 patients who filled out questionnaires, 42, or 25 percent, reported prior fibroid treatment. Of those patients, 18 reported prior procedural treatment, 8 reported prior medical management, and 16 had experienced both prior procedural treatment and medical management. Notably, the treatment approach did not affect the study’s main finding. Regardless of whether patients reported previous procedural treatment or medical management, they consistently reported elevated symptom severity scores and lower quality of life compared to those who had not yet undergone treatment. “While our sample size was small, we weren’t surprised by these findings. Women from across the country come to our center to receive specialized treatment and support.” “While our sample size was small, we weren’t surprised by these findings,” Dr. Shirazian says. “Women from across the country come to our center to receive specialized treatment and support. Often, patients are not given options that resonate with them and support their life goals.” Expanding Holistic Approaches Ensuring treatment plans are tailored to the individual patient is a priority for Dr. Shirazian and her team. In addition to considering the patient’s symptoms and the size and location of fibroids, the team also takes into account the patient’s fertility goals and access to treatment. “We explain all available treatment options, starting with medications and lifestyle choices, and in more severe cases, surgical strategies,” Dr. Shirazian says. “Our goal is to make sure patients are aware of effective nonsurgical treatments and to keep expanding those options. We are constantly innovating with novel combinatorial strategies.” Another from the team is evaluating a structured intervention, known as the Lifestyle Intervention in Fibroid Elimination (LIFE) Program , to determine whether a lifestyle, nutrition, and exercise program can modify fibroid recurrence in asymptomatic patients who have had fibroids removed via a myomectomy or other procedure. “Our goal is to make sure patients are aware of effective nonsurgical treatments and to keep expanding those options. We are constantly innovating with novel combinatorial strategies that may help patients avoid major surgery,” says Dr. Shirazian. Division of Women’s Global & Community Health Taraneh Shirazian, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology and director of the Center for Fibroid Care and the Division of Women’s Global and Community Health. Nerve Block Relieves Chronic Vaginal Pain from Pudendal Neuralgia Providing Relief for Patients Struggling with Vulvar Conditions A focused approach treats unmet needs that often fall between gynecology and dermatology practice. Genetic Testing in Gynecologic Cancer: Lowering the Systemic Barriers to Access Oncologist and clinical trials leader Dr. Bhavana Pothuri discusses the need to universalize next-generation sequencing. Affirming All Gender Identities Through Pregnancy An expert in transgender pregnancy discusses progress and best practices for inclusive care. Remote Monitoring Improves Outcomes in Diabetes During Pregnancy Using remote monitoring technology for diabetes in pregnancy reduces pregnancy and newborn complications. Reducing the Uncertainties in Acromegaly Treatment Investigators at the , director of pituitary diseases, are focused on reducing the gap between symptom onset and management of acromegaly. As time to biochemical control is a main determinant of morbidity and mortality, Dr. Agrawal says minimizing management delays would go a long way toward improving outcomes for this rare disease. One product of this effort—a literature review co-authored by Dr. Agrawal—reports that cavernous sinus invasion, large tumor size, and high growth hormone levels are predictive of incomplete remission following tumor resection. Published in Pituitary , the findings may help propel a more personalized approach to patient care for this rare disease. “While surgery is largely curative, about 40 to 50 percent of patients with acromegaly require the continued support of medication for the rest of their lives,” Dr. Agrawal says. “The question is: Which medication is the best for a certain patient?” Predictors of Poor Surgical Remission To determine factors predictive of remission, the researchers identified 77 publications describing outcomes of transsphenoidal selective adenomectomy. Most represented single-center, retrospective studies. Cavernous sinus invasion arose as the strongest preoperative predictor of poor surgical remission, followed by high growth hormone levels. “Aggressive tumors or those that had bony invasion almost always required medical therapy post-surgery,” Dr. Agrawal explains. In contrast, low levels of growth hormone in the postoperative period were a robust predictor of durable remission. These and other prognostic factors, Dr. Agrawal notes, could be incorporated into machine learning models for predicting incomplete response to surgery, which could be used to minimize delays in medical management and further personalize post-surgery treatment. Optimizing Medical Management While currently, it can take months for a particular medication to be deemed ineffective and treatment to be modified, Dr. Agrawal and colleagues are pursuing ways to more precisely understand which patient groups are likely to respond to a given therapy. Toward this goal, the team is helping enroll patients in the national Chiasma Management of Acromegaly ( MACRO ) registry—the first registry for acromegaly in the U.S.—which aims to develop new oral therapies for patients experiencing challenges with exisiting treatment options. “It’s all about customizing the medications to the patients. That is where treatment for acromegaly is headed.” “Because all the tumors in acromegaly behave differently, it’s all about customizing the medications to the patients,” Dr. Agrawal says. “That is where treatment for acromegaly is headed.” Improving Early Diagnosis The researchers note that patients with acromegaly commonly experience symptoms for five to 10 years before finally being diagnosed with a pituitary tumor. To improve diagnosis, Dr. Agrawal also spends time educating other providers on the slow, insidious onset of the disease. “The sooner you pick up the disease, the better the outcomes, and for that, education is key.” As the subtle symptoms of acromegaly include carpal tunnel syndrome, sleep apnea, and dental anomalies, Dr. Agrawal says many of her referrals come from neurology, pulmonology, and dentistry. “The sooner you pick up the disease, the better the outcomes, and for that, education is key,” Dr. Agrawal says. In addition, NYU Langone Health has hosted a well-attended, virtual Acromegaly Patient Education Day to help patients with acromegaly, their family and friends learn more about the condition. Endocrinology, Neuroendocrinology Nidhi Agrawal, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of medicine and director of pituitary diseases at the Pituitary Center. She specializes in neuroendocrinology and the treatment of pituitary disorders. Extending the Treatment Window for Open Distal Radius Fractures The study found no significant increase in risk when comparing patients who have surgical treatment for an open distal radius fracture within 24 hours of injury with those treated after 24 hours. Adapted From: Azad A, et al. Is Time Truly of the Essence? Outcomes of Open Distal Radius Fracture Management. Poster presented at the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) Annual Meeting. March 2023. Las Vegas, NV. Within orthopedics, open fractures have long been viewed as a surgical emergency, irrespective of location, patient characteristics, or the mechanism of injury. After an open distal radius fracture (ODRF), for example, orthopedic surgeons have typically advised urgent irrigation, debridement, and operative fixation. However, a retrospective analysis led by investigators at NYU Langone Health—the largest of its kind—challenges these practices. The study, which was named the best hand and wrist paper at the 2023 American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) Annual Meeting, finds delaying treatment for an ODRF injury beyond 24 hours does not yield a greater risk of postoperative complications. Age, energy and mechanism of injury, or fracture grade doesn’t alter the outcome in any statistically significant way either. “The value of this study is that it allows us to start thinking much more scientifically about open fractures. There’s a world of difference between an open femur and an open distal radius.” “The value of this study is that it allows us to start thinking much more scientifically about open fractures,” says senior author , co-director of the multidisciplinary . “There’s a world of difference between an open femur and an open distal radius. We can’t think of them and treat them the same way. What’s good for one might not be good for the other, and vice versa.” The study, which included 94 patients presenting with an ODRF injury over a six-year period, analyzed the rate of postoperative complications, including surgical site infection, revision irrigation and debridement, delayed soft tissue healing, loss of reduction, and nonunion and malunion. A follow-up national database study by the research team, still underway, has so far pointed to the same conclusions. Dr. Hacquebord says that similar complication rates regardless of time to treatment have important implications for resource allocation. “What would be better: for a patient to go urgently to the operating room in the middle of the night with a surgeon who is not a specialist in the area or to be taken to the operating room by a surgeon who is a specialist in the area at a time that’s convenient for the patient?” he says. “I think the latter is much better patient care. That’s what we’ve shown, and people overall have been very excited by our results.” New Radiographic Protocol Reduces Pediatric X-Rays When a child arrives in an emergency department or urgent care with a suspected fracture, the location of that injury isn’t always immediately clear and the child is commonly evaluated with multiple X-rays. Patients and their families, however, have often told pediatric orthopedic surgeon Jody Litrenta, MD , about the stress of repeated imaging and long visits. “I started to think that we could be more specific about the way we’re evaluating kids with injuries,” Dr. Litrenta says. In particular, she began wondering how to make the process more streamlined and effective. study in the Journal of Pediatric Orthopaedics , she and colleagues at NYU Langone Health describe a simple radiographic protocol that successfully reduces the overall number of X-rays needed to thoroughly evaluate suspected fractures without missing any injuries. “We don’t want to be the doctor that didn’t do enough. These results validate that a workup based on the protocol is appropriate.” “We don’t want to be the doctor that didn’t do enough,” Dr. Litrenta says. “These results validate that a workup based on the protocol is appropriate.” Playground Injuries For their study, the researchers first conducted a retrospective chart review of 495 cases of suspected fracture in pediatric patients. “We wanted to see what kinds of injuries we were getting and what the current practice was,” she says. Based on the data, the team created and distributed a simplified decision aid to help emergency room physicians and consulting residents think through when another X-ray is or isn’t necessary. “There’s an idea that you need to X-ray the joint above and below the apparent injury. This is something that we do very often in a high-energy trauma when we’re concerned that in addition to a tibial shaft fracture, maybe there’s an injury in the knee or ankle,” Dr. Litrenta says. “But in kids with the lower-energy, playground injuries that we typically see here at NYU Langone, it’s generally safe to focus on one fracture area and not expand that.” “In kids with the lower-energy, playground injuries that we typically see here at NYU Langone, it’s generally safe to focus on one fracture area and not expand that.” The protocol’s three basic tenets include evaluating an injury with at most two contiguous areas of radiographs, limiting the screening for secondary fractures except for children with elbow injuries, and not repeating or obtaining additional imaging without a clear clinical concern. X-Ray Reductions To assess the new protocol, the team evaluated its performance on an additional 333 pediatric injuries. Main outcome measures included the final diagnosis, total number of X-rays, number of anatomic areas imaged, visit length, and time for additional trips to radiology. Crucially, the team found that the protocol still allowed for a comprehensive assessment that didn’t miss any injuries. It also yielded a significant reduction in overall X-rays, especially for elbow injuries (Figure 1), and in X-rays for patients who had arrived with outside imaging. “Importantly, we saw that if those X-rays were negative, continuing on the hunt and sending the patient back for additional X-rays wasn’t helpful,” Dr. Litrenta says. Figure 1. The implementation of a simple radiographic protocol yielded significant reductions in the number of pediatric patients requiring 3 or more X-rays to evaluate suspected fractures of the ankle, tibia, forearm/wrist, and elbow. Adapted From: Schlacter JA, et al. J Pediatr Orthop. 2023;43(1):61-64 The researchers didn’t see a significant reduction in the length of emergency department visits, perhaps due to other limiting factors related to the administration of anesthesia and required observation times. Dr. Litrenta also cautions that car accident injuries and concerns about non-accidental trauma or abuse generally require more thorough X-ray evaluations. For low-intensity injuries, though, the protocol proved its ability to reduce imaging with no loss in diagnostic rigor. “For the typical trauma that we see, it’s a good way to say that this is what you should start with and feel confident that you don’t have to escalate,” Dr. Litrenta says. Jody Litrenta, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of orthopedics who specializes in pediatric orthopedic surgery and treats patients with scoliosis, limb abnormalities, fractures, Blount disease, and clubfoot. Testing Pulsed Field Ablation for Treating Atrial Fibrillation A new energy source for catheter ablation could radically alter the field. Hearing the Heartfelt Needs of ACHD Patients A growing population needs support beyond standard cardiac care. Unmasking a Rare Complication of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Resembling Takotsubo syndrome, this life-threatening set of symptoms requires rapid and much different treatment. The Future of the Total Artificial Heart After decades of research, is there a permanent artificial heart on the horizon? Artificial Heart Implant Followed by Heart-Kidney Transplant in a Patient with Amyloidosis A life-saving effort entailed two dauntingly complex surgeries—and a team of over 100 clinical specialists. Leadless Pacemakers Promise to Shape Future of AV Synchrony Leadless pacemakers are a novel technology designed to overcome the complications and adverse effects associated with conventional transvenous pacemakers. The devices have been shown to be safe , with a low risk of both short- and long-term complications and high rates of successful implantation. “Leadless pacing is the future of pacemaker technology with the potential to transform the lives of patients with bradyarrhythmias,” says A national leader in the treatment of arrhythmias with the new technology, Dr. Chinitz helped lead the MARVEL 2 study that evaluated the performance of a leadless ventricular pacemaker with automated, enhanced accelerometer-based algorithms that provide atrioventricular (AV) synchronous pacing. Research suggests that patients with pacemakers that maintain AV synchrony appear to have less morbidity and mortality than patients with ventricular stimulation alone. Additional benefits to AV synchrony include avoidance of pacemaker syndrome, improvement of quality of life, and improvement in left ventricle stroke volume and function. Decades of Progress For several decades, cardiac pacing has been exclusively performed by systems consisting of subcutaneously implanted pulse generators with one or more transvenous leads. A major limitation of traditional pacing systems is the potential for complications attributable to the pacemaker pocket or leads, including hematoma, pneumothorax, hemothorax, lead dislodgement, lead failure, or infection. While early versions of leadless pacemakers were unable to provide AV synchrony, modern leadless devices are designed to overcome pocket- and lead-related complications , with reports of an approximate 60 percent reduction in complications compared with transvenous pacemakers. “Encouraging results from preliminary studies have led to an increased interest in a broader use of leadless devices,” Dr. Chinitz explains. “Despite recent progress, currently available leadless pacemakers only provide single-chamber ventricular rate responsive pacing.” Moving Toward AV Synchrony In collaboration with Medtronic, Dr. Chinitz and his team led the MARVEL 2 study, results from which showed that accelerometer-based atrial sensing with an automated, enhanced algorithm significantly improved AV synchrony in patients with sinus rhythm and AV block who were implanted with a leadless ventricular pacemaker. Building on earlier observations , these encouraging results from MARVEL 2 confirmed an increase in AV synchrony and stroke volume with AV synchronous pacing. In addition, the performance of the algorithm did not appear to have diminished efficacy in newer implantations versus long-term implantations. “The enhanced MARVEL 2 algorithm allowed for AV synchronous ventricular pacing with a leadless pacemaker in patients with normal sinus activity and complete heart block,” Dr. Chinitz notes. Translational Outlook If the early results from the MARVEL 2 trial hold up, Dr. Chinitz anticipates the Heart Rhythm Center will be among the first to adopt leadless pacing technology. NYU Langone is one of the world’s largest centers for the treatment of complex arrhythmias and a pioneer in pacemaker technology. “If implemented in clinical practice, this new technology will help to further expand the spectrum of patients who might be eligible for leadless pacing.” “If implemented in clinical practice, this new technology will help to further expand the spectrum of patients who might be eligible for leadless pacing,” Dr. Chinitz says. Larry A. Chinitz, MD, is the Alvin Benjamin and Kenneth Coyle Sr. Family Professor of Medicine and Cardiac Electrophysiology, clinical director of the Leon H. Charney Divison of Cardiology, and director of cardiac electrophysiology and the Heart Rhythm Center. His research interests center on developing new techniques for treating cardiac arrhythmias. Our Occupational & Industrial Orthopedic Center Team The team members at NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center hold advanced degrees and board certification in their fields, publish in peer-reviewed journals, and lecture extensively worldwide. Our researchers have participated in task force and guideline panels and are known internationally for their expertise in musculoskeletal disorders. Marco Campello, PhD, PT, Director Dr. Campello is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. He received his doctoral degree in ergonomics and biomechanics from the Graduate School of Arts and Science at NYU and also holds a New York State physical therapy license. Dr. Campello’s research interest is in the prevention and treatment of work-related musculoskeletal disability, with a special interest in multidisciplinary intervention and work-related health outcomes. Dr. Campello is a member of the North American Spine Society and the EUROSPINE, the Spine Society of Europe. Learn more about Dr. Campello Jeffrey Perry, DO, Medical Advisor Dr. Perry is board certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation and is a specialist in the nonsurgical management of musculoskeletal disorders and work-related injuries. Dr. Perry is a clinical instructor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine and Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. Learn more about Dr. Perry Sherri Weiser-Horwitz, PhD, Director of Clinical Services and Research Dr. Weiser-Horwitz is a licensed health psychologist with more than 25 years of research and clinical experience in the field of musculoskeletal disorders. She is an expert on the biopsychosocial model of health and illness. She provides education and cognitive behavioral pain management to patients and trains health providers in psychological treatments. She is the recipient of federal research grant funding, has written numerous articles and chapters, and lectures extensively on this topic. Dr. Weiser-Horwitz is a member of the North American Spine Society and a consultant for their Allied Health Committee. She is also a research associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. Learn more about Dr. Weiser-Horwitz Ali Sheikhzadeh, PhD, Director of Research and Education Dr. Sheikhzadeh is a research associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. He received his doctoral degree in ergonomics and biomechanics from the Graduate School of Arts and Science at NYU. He is the program director of the graduate program of ergonomics and biomechanics offered by the Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center. Dr. Sheikhzadeh is also the director and principle investigator for government funding grants for the Educational Research Center at NYU Langone, which is a part of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health–sponsored New York and New Jersey Education and Research Center. Dr. Sheikhzadeh has conducted research extensively, focusing on ergonomics and biomechanics, with an interest in product evaluation and human performance assessment. He is a certified industrial ergonomist at the Oxford Research Institute, and a member of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society. Learn more about Dr. Sheikhzadeh Hope Mowery, PhD, HSP, Psychologist Research Coordinator Dr. Mowery is a licensed psychologist with expertise in health psychology. She received her PhD in clinical psychology from Indiana University in 2010 and completed her internship and fellowship at Geisinger Medical Center in Pennsylvania in 2011. She has extensive experience in the practice of mindfulness and behavioral and cognitive behavioral therapies as well as multiple areas of health psychology. She has worked with diverse groups of adults with various health concerns and in several different settings, including primary care, inpatient consultation and therapy, outpatient clinics, and telehealth. She has trained in acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), cognitive processing therapy (CPT), motivational interviewing (MI), and dialectical behavior therapy (DBT). She evaluates the people she treats from a biopsychosocial perspective and provides education and evidence-based therapy. Dina Shah, PT, Clinical Specialist Ms. Shah graduated from Daemen College in 2001 with a bachelor's degree in physical therapy. Ms. Shah has more than 12 years of clinical orthopedic experience and is a licensed physical therapist in New York, New Jersey, and Canada. Ms. Shah is also a certified strength and conditioning specialist. Ka Hing Chow, DPT, PT, Staff Physical Therapist Dr. Chow is a staff physical therapist. She earned her doctorate in physical therapy from Long Island University in 2010. The year before she was an intern in our clinic, where she was trained in interdisciplinary care and the biopsychosocial approach to prevent chronicity and disability. She is a New York State–licensed physical therapist. Zihao Du, DPT, PT, Staff Physical Therapist Dr. Du earned his doctorate in physical therapy from Long Island University Brooklyn and graduated with a master’s degree in nutrition and food studies from New York University. He is highly motivated to continue developing his clinical, interpersonal, and social skills to deliver high-quality care and promote rehabilitation and wellness. Cindy Ozuna, Departmental Secretary Cindy is the front desk supervisor and is highly knowledgeable in the service standards of NYU Langone. Cynthia Reyes, Secretary I Cynthia assists patients at the front desk and has worked at NYU Langone for more than 23 years. Joel Toby, Rehabilitation Attendant As a rehabilitation attendant, Joel assists in the safety of our patients and the maintenance of the gym and gym equipment. The ergonomic product consulting services at provide usability evaluation for existing products as well as prototypes for product lines. Our research staff uses direct objective and indirect subjective methods for usability testing and to improve performance and design. Our experts have consulted with numerous firms for biomechanical and ergonomic product evaluation. Services we offer include the following: assessing force capabilities and excessive forces or identifying pressure on surfaces three-dimensional motion tracking to assess motion patterns and postural deviations electromyography testing to assess muscle activity in terms of onset, relative effort, and fatigue indirect measurements, such as interviews, focus group meetings, and surveys, to provide essential information for the development and evaluation of a product Our product design and evaluation service enables designers and small businesses to submit their products to high-quality testing. The results can be used to demonstrate adherence to safety guidelines and comfort, giving the product an edge in performance and marketing. An ergonomic assessment is also necessary for medical device approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and to adhere to functional performance criteria set by Section 508 under the Rehabilitation Act. Experts from can design a corporate ergonomics program to assist employers who want to improve the comfort and wellbeing of current employees and those returning to work after an injury or impairment. Employers participating in our corporate ergonomics program receive services designed to solve the ergonomic issues at their workplace. It’s a participatory approach—we bring together all appropriate stakeholders who work collaboratively with our team to assess what risks are more prevalent in the workplace and then choose the most effective and sound ergonomic solutions to mitigate or eliminate those risks. These solutions may include the following. Ergonomics Evaluation and Recommendation Our experts conduct evaluations to gain insight into different aspects of the work, from organizational culture to the breakdown of job tasks and activities. This process may include focus groups to better understand risk factors associated with injuries as well as a review of the company’s injury surveillance rate, if that data is available. If it is not, our team researches data from a similar industry or helps your company establish an injury surveillance system. Based on the needs identified from this information, our specialists can design an effective corporate ergonomics program. Education and Training Programs Our specialists can train and educate your safety and occupational health staff in the prevention of musculoskeletal injuries. Our programs encourage autonomy in educating your workforce. In collaboration with your staff, we prepare on-site training adapted to meet the needs of management, unions, and employees. We offer group lectures on a variety of topics, such as safety at work and psychosocial stressors in the workplace. Our programs also offer on-site training that covers topics such as ergonomic awareness and combine lectures, exercises, and discussions in an interactive, small group format to improve health and employee satisfaction. We can help you design, implement, and maintain ongoing injury prevention programs in your workplace. Disparities in Breast Cancer Care: How Risk Assessments Can Address the Gap Kathie-Ann Joseph, MD, MPH Despite the improved survival rate for patients with breast cancer over the past several decades, disparities in mortality rates between White and Black patients have not changed , and a significant gap still exists. Breast surgeon , is focused on eliminating this gap. Here, Dr. Joseph, who serves as clinical systems lead for NYU Langone Health’s co-director of the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program , reflects on how the recent updates to screening recommendations impact Black women and spotlights an often-overlooked tool: the early risk assessment. Changing Guidelines Prompt Questions The screening guidelines for mammograms have changed over the last few years. Can you share why you think these changes don’t go far enough? Dr. Joseph: Last year, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) lowered the age at which all women can begin breast cancer screening to 40. It’s great that the USPSTF lowered the screening age for all women, but the recommendation is still for screening every other year. Plus, the guidelines make no mention of risk assessment. If you have a family history, you’re not going to wait until 40, you may need to start screening earlier, you may need to get genetic testing, you may need additional breast imaging, such as an MRI. “All women, and particularly Black women, need to have a discussion with their primary care doctors no later than the age of 30 about what their risk is for developing breast cancer.” All women, and particularly Black women, need to have a discussion with their primary care doctors no later than the age of 30 about what their risk is for developing breast cancer so that they know when they should start screening. Primary Care Conversations Your research focuses on disparities in screening and diagnostic follow-up care in Black women. What does this research tell us? Our research has found that Black women tend to be diagnosed with breast cancer at a younger age than White women and have a 42 percent greater risk of death from breast cancer than White women if diagnosed before age 50. They are also more likely than White women to get a diagnosis without having had a single screening exam. Before the guidelines changed, I and a group of breast surgical oncologists led a multicenter study Annals of Surgical Oncology that advocated that Black women needed to be screened earlier. Because Black women experience higher rates of breast cancer diagnoses before age 50, and are at greater risk for more-aggressive disease, initiating risk assessments and screening earlier can make a significant impact on closing those care gaps. “Primary care physicians must inquire about a patient’s family history of cancer, even though it’s not something typically discussed among family members in the Black community.” We also found there’s education that needs to happen with primary care doctors and obstetrician–gynecologists. Sometimes we see young women with breast cancer who have multiple family members with breast cancer but have never been referred for genetic testing. Primary care physicians must inquire about the family history of cancer, even though it’s not something typically discussed among family members in the Black community. Not initiating conversations with Black women about family history, risk, and screening opportunities perpetuates the current care gaps. Community Engagement to Improve Screening Your team is working to identify and educate underserved women who would benefit from breast cancer screening. Can you talk more about the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program? The program started as purely community engagement, but it morphed into something much bigger. We started by placing nonclinical patient navigators in the community , engaging women where they work, live, and socialize. The goal is to help educate women in the community on their risk and care options and then help them schedule appointments for mammograms and further diagnostic screening if needed. If they are diagnosed, that same navigator helps them along their entire cancer journey, including access to services if they are uninsured. As word spread among other community-based organizations, it became clear that some women who are diagnosed with breast cancer don’t have the means to travel in for treatment or deal with insurance issues. Now, we not only have navigators out in the community educating women at churches and beauty salons, but we also have navigators in our clinics in Brooklyn and Bellevue assisting patients with travel plans, insurance claims, and more. So far, we’ve had over 20,000 encounters. “We not only have navigators out in the community educating women at churches and beauty salons, but we also have navigators in our clinics.” Genetic testing and counseling are also part of the Welters Program; we felt it was important to have this available for all our patients, especially those who lack health insurance. We have two dedicated genetic counselors and a genetic counseling assistant as part of our program. If there’s one takeaway message from your work in this area, what would that be? Physicians should be vigilant about conducting breast cancer risk assessments for all women, but Black women are at an increased risk. It is important for them to not only get screened and examined annually beginning at 40, but they also need to have a risk assessment done no later than the age of 30. Kathie-Ann Joseph, MD, MPH, is a professor of surgery and population health, vice chair of diversity and health equity in surgery, clinical systems lead for the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity, and co-director of the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research focuses on breast cancer screening and diagnostic follow-up care in Black and other medically underserved women. Addressing Hearing Loss as a Barrier to Care Undetected hearing issues can result in poor communication between patient and provider and become an obstacle to care, says , director of the Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Care at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. To assess the feasibility and potential benefit of one intervention, Dr. Chodosh and a team of researchers led a providing a simple hearing assistance device to patients age 60 and older who reported difficulty hearing during a Veterans Affairs (VA) emergency department (ED) visit. The researchers have now received VA funding to move forward with an expanded national study. “If a patient can’t hear well, they don’t always leave the ED with a good understanding of their problem or what they need after ED care,” Dr. Chodosh says. “When you’re using more cognitive effort to listen, that amount of effort is no longer dedicated to taking in, working with, processing, and encoding information—being engaged in the moment.” The Case for Personal Amplifiers HEAR-VA pilot study followed 133 veterans who presented to the ED of New York Harbor Manhattan VA Medical Center and were likely to be discharged to home. Enrolled patients either said that they had difficulty hearing or scored 10 or greater on the Hearing Handicap Inventory-Survey. Participants were randomized to no intervention or to receive a personal amplifier (PA), the Williams Sound Pocketalker 2.0, for use during their ED visit. Three short survey instruments were used: a Hearing and Understanding Questionnaire to gauge ability to understand without effort; a Care Transitions Survey to measure the patient’s readiness for discharge; and a Patient Understanding of Discharge Information survey. Following discharge, the researchers conducted surveys and post-visit phone calls to assess ED revisits. “There’s a critical qualitative piece to this,” Dr. Chodosh says. “We’ve had a lot of experiential and anecdotal evidence, but we want to find out if the PA device helps a patient interact with information in a more productive way.” Veterans with hearing difficulties reported improved ED experiences with use of PAs. Additionally, researchers found PAs might reduce the need to return to the ED within three days—suggesting a tangible improvement in patient outcomes as well as experience. “If you’re in the ED and you come back within three days, it may be because critical self-management information was not heard correctly, if at all. It’s easier to communicate with patients who are using amplifiers.” The VA as Study Site Dr. Chodosh explains why the team chose a VA medical center to conduct its research: “The VA has a history of geriatrics innovations; they place high importance on age-related care. Veterans are amazing—they are often easier to recruit as they have a high degree of volunteerism. In addition, audiology visits are among the most frequent visits for veterans outside of primary care.” One of the primary reasons many patients don’t pursue getting hearing aids is the cost, Dr. Chodosh adds. “The VA produces a great natural experiment because cost is no barrier—at least in some facilities, hearing amplifiers are a known commodity that can be ordered through the patient health record.” Validating the Pilot In the larger implementation trial, six national VA sites will roll out in phases over 40 months. The first phase is a repeat of the efficacy trial with a larger sample size: 400 veterans over a nine-month period of enrollment. “After the randomized efficacy period, anyone whose screening indicates hearing impairment will get an amplifier if they want it,” Dr. Chodosh says. With each progressive phase, the facilities will take on more responsibility for screening, distributing, and fitting hearing amplifiers. Research assistants will continue to conduct discharge surveys and will evaluate facility involvement. “Hearing is one of those things that we don’t see as healthcare-related in primary medical care,” Dr. Chodosh says. “Geriatricians have an important educational role to play in making everyone aware of just how critically important it is to be able to hear, and the downstream negative consequences when you can’t hear without additional effort.” Making the Case for Ambulatory Palliative Care in Advanced Kidney Disease Palliative care addresses the challenges of advanced kidney disease through provision of expert symptom control, assistance with complex medical decision-making, and facilitation of advance care planning. Internationally, ambulatory kidney palliative care clinics report positive outcomes—yet this approach is rare in the U.S., and little data exists on its effectiveness. “Our program is one of the few of its kind in this country,” says , director of the Kidney CARES (Comprehensive Advanced Renal Disease and End Stage Renal Disease Support) Program, an ambulatory palliative care clinic embedded in NYU Langone Health’s Nephrology Faculty Group Practice. “We believe this model can benefit many patients,” adds Dr. Scherer, who is double boarded in nephrology and palliative care, “but it’s essential to develop a set of best practices to guide practitioners in a wide range of settings.” Capturing the Value of Ambulatory Services In October 2021, a team led by Dr. Scherer published the first U.S. study of patient and caregiver experiences receiving ambulatory palliative care specific to kidney disease. The study, published in the American Journal of Hospice and Palliative Medicine , included semi-structured interviews with eight patients and three caregivers addressing two themes: 1) communication about the emotional and physical aspects of disease, and 2) filling gaps in care. Under the first theme, participants reported that empathic communication from clinic providers was effective in leading to a better understanding of the life changes associated with advanced kidney disease. Such communication also strengthened patients’ ability to cope with their illness, fostering optimism and a proactive approach to their own care. Under the second theme, participants identified gaps in their care that were addressed at the clinic—particularly, symptom management and engagement in advance care planning. The search for symptom relief was a primary factor influencing participants’ decision to attend the clinic. Improvements in pain management were noted by most patients; one reported that this change had “turned my life around.” Many participants engaged in advance care planning during clinic visits, often for the first time. The majority of patient respondents were age 65 or older, representative of the general clinic population. “End-stage renal disease is far more often a disease of aging,” says , director of the Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Care. “This research exemplifies the value of our integrated focus on improving symptom management and goals of care across geriatrics and palliative care patient populations—and identifying what may be unique needs of older patients.” The Road Ahead Dr. Scherer says that further research is needed to determine the optimal model of care for kidney palliative care in the U.S.—as well as how to dispel widespread misperceptions that palliative care pertains only to end-of-life care. In a future study, she and colleagues plan to focus on providing rigorous evidence for integration of palliative care through randomized controlled trials testing the effectiveness of this approach to care. Our study participants described a clinical experience of ambulatory kidney palliative care that is relatively unknown in the U.S .” “Our study participants described a clinical experience of ambulatory kidney palliative care that is relatively unknown in the U.S.,” Dr. Scherer observes. “I hope these data can be of value to other [health systems] seeking to develop more patient-centered models of care for those living with kidney disease.” Palliative Care, Nephrology Jennifer S. Scherer, MD, is medical director of the Lower Manhattan Dialysis Center and an assistant professor of medicine. Her clinical and research interests center on developing a model of care that effectively integrates palliative care and nephrology, with the goal of achieving improved quality of life, coordination of care, and patient-driven decision-making. Settling the Surgery vs. Observation Debate for Acoustic Tumors Revolutionizing Brain Tumor Diagnosis Advanced optical imaging and AI combined could empower neurosurgeons to deliver a new level of care. More Powerful AI to Unravel Neurological Mysteries An unprecedented system will accelerate insights for surgeons. Twin Studies Support Stereotactic Radiosurgery as Standard Practice New research evidences benefits for patients with ≥25 brain metastases. Fewer Brain Metastases After Stopping Systemic Therapy Patients who discontinued therapy due to toxicity and those with certain mutations were more likely to develop new tumors. Tying Teamwork to Outcomes in Skull Base Surgery At NASBS, surgical leaders make the case for teamwork as a critically important—and deliberate—practice to achieve optimal outcomes. Infant with CHAOS Receives Lifesaving EXIT Procedure at Birth A multidisciplinary team established an airway in a partially delivered fetus with congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS), enabling a safe birth and subsequent interventions of the heart and rectum. In a complex fetal surgery procedure performed at at NYU Langone, a multidisciplinary team established an airway in a partially delivered fetus with congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS), enabling a safe birth and subsequent interventions of the heart and rectum. CHAOS is an extremely rare and serious birth defect that inhibits the child’s ability to breathe at birth. In this present case, a prenatal ultrasound scan at 24 weeks of gestation identified the complete blockage in the trachea. Without intervention, mortality is 100 percent. “The ultrasound revealed large, overinflated lungs, which can indicate CHAOS,” says , vice chair for clinical affairs–obstetrics and co-director of the . “As a result of the airway blockage, the lung fluid cannot escape the fetal mouth, causing the lungs to fill up immensely and swell.” The highly specialized delivery, known as EXIT (ex-utero intrapartum treatment)-to-airway, takes advantage of the uteroplacental blood flow and maternal-fetal gas exchange while the baby’s trachea is secured. Full delivery and ventilation followed. The mother, Yadi, had comorbidities—her BMI was 31, she had the Prothrombin gene mutation, and she was on 40 mg of Lovenox daily prior to the surgery. Yadi also had four subsequent miscarriages, polycystic ovary syndrome, and stage 4 endometriosis. “As the operation begins, the mother receives deep general anesthesia to achieve complete uterine relaxation,” says Dr. Roman. “Uterine flaccidity is necessary to preserve uteroplacental blood flow, although this poses the serious risk of severe hemorrhage in the event of placental abruption, so this is high risk to both mom and baby.” The EXIT Procedure The goal of the EXIT procedure is to establish an airway before the umbilical cord is cut, avoiding immediate crisis and allowing for a more stable transition from placental circulation to newborn circulation. Planning for EXIT treatment depends on early detection of the fetal anomaly. In this case, the procedure was scheduled for gestational week 35. Over 25 NYU Langone providers from maternal–fetal medicine, neonatology, pediatric surgery, pediatric ENT, and pediatric anesthesiology collaborated to plan the EXIT procedure. “CHAOS is an apt acronym for this condition; there is zero room for failure,” says , director of Children’s Surgical Services and director of the Division of Pediatric Surgery . “As soon as we learned of the diagnosis, we initiated a multidisciplinary team to begin the months of preparation.” “The most important thing about CHAOS is early diagnosis, detailed fetal assessment, and an adequate postnatal intervention for establishing an airway.” While the fetus’ head and neck were extracted from the uterus, Division of Pediatric Otolaryngology and co-director of the , first attempted rigid scope. With that method failing given the full blockage, a successful tracheostomy was performed. Baby Aydin Idris Martin was successfully delivered, but the care team discovered his lungs were inflated because of the airway obstruction. This put pressure on his heart, affecting its ability to function properly. Moments after the EXIT, neonatologists started to resuscitate Aydin, but it was clear his heart was not recovering. Dr. Fisher made the quick decision to initiate ECMO to support his heart and lungs. Aydin was transferred to the NICU in critical condition—still on ECMO, but with an assisted airway established. Family Commitment Is Key “The most important thing about CHAOS is early diagnosis, detailed fetal assessment, and an adequate postnatal intervention for establishing an airway,” says Dr. Rickert. “Every EXIT procedure can be a bit different. When you have one congenital abnormality, you may have others.” Family commitment is equally important to ensuring the baby’s optimal long-term outcome, adds Dr. Rickert. “Aydin has at least one more surgery necessary before he will be able to breathe completely on his own. We plan to keep monitoring his airway and do a reconstruction in the next few years when he’s grown a bit bigger.” Partial Delivery via C-section The baby’s head and shoulders were delivered by Cesarean section, leaving everything below the chest in utero. The mother was placed in low lithotomy position and ultrasound was used to map the fetus and placenta. The fetal head and one arm were delivered for continuous pulse oximetry, leaving the umbilical cord and placenta intact while pediatric surgeons worked to establish an airway. Because the mother had risk factors for deep vein thrombosis, every precaution was taken to prevent bleeding. Tracheostomy Needed to Bypass Airway Blockage The pediatric otolaryngology team completes a tracheostomy. One of the biggest challenges posed prior to Aydin’s birth was not fully understanding the extent of his airway blockage. Through in utero imaging, it was determined that the airway opening was completely blocked. Once Aydin was born, the pediatric otolaryngology team quickly bypassed the blockage by placing a tracheostomy, successfully providing the intervention to complete the delivery. ECMO Required to Support Heart Recovery ECMO support is initiated. Moments after the EXIT, it was clear the baby’s heart was not recovering. Examination revealed a pneumothorax. His belly was also expanding, creating pressure on the heart and lungs. The surgical team initiated ECMO to support cardiopulmonary function and laparotomy to relieve the pressure. Additional Surgeries Needed Aydin is wheeled into the NICU, where he will spend the next 169 days overcoming obstacles and hitting milestones. Once Aydin was stable, the team made a final discovery—Aydin had an anorectal malformation. The infant underwent several additional surgeries, including surgery to correct a congenital heart defect. Scott M. Rickert, MD, is chief of the Division of Pediatric Otolaryngology and a co-director of the Pediatric Aerodigestive Center. He is also an associate professor of pediatrics, plastic surgery, and otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. His interests include pediatric airway, voice, and swallowing, and the development of simulation software and devices. More Powerful AI to Unravel Neurological Mysteries In one component of a landmark program to integrate artificial intelligence (AI) into clinical practice, neuroscientists will harness some of the world’s most powerful computing technologies. The AI computing platform, developed by neurosurgeon , will be unique among neuroscience departments in the United States. “Research cycles that once took weeks will be finished in days.” “The new system will yield 7-times higher performance gains compared to previous generation systems,” says Dr. Oermann. “Research cycles that once took weeks will be finished in days—we’re able to accelerate the time to insight.” A Next Generation System Leveraging servers and hardware that are a major leap forward over previous systems, the system will deliver unprecedented computational power, reliability, and a configurable graphics processing unit topology, says Dr. Oermann. Among other applications, his research team will use the enhanced support for data and algorithms to replicate parts of human brain function in silico The leap in computing power could have immediate impact supporting AI models to help global medical teams fight COVID-19 , says Dr. Oermann. The new system was fully implemented in December 2021. Dr. Oermann’s team partners together experts from mathematics, computer science, neuroscience, informatics, linguistics, and medicine, among a range of specialties. Clinical Applications The AI research directly augments Dr. Oermann’s clinical work in treating neurological disorders and cancer, showing how machine learning investigations can become machine learning-guided interventions. one project , his team is investigating the application of AI to surgical endoscopy. “A major drawback of early endoscopy was the lack of depth perception arising from two-dimensional (2D) vision,” says Oermann. While modern three-dimensional (3D) stereo endoscopes exist, they cannot be miniaturized to the same degree as 2D endoscopes and suffer from a smaller field of view , rendering them unusable for some surgeries, he says. Dr. Oermann’s team is now using 3D glasses or a head-mounted virtual reality display combined with a deep neural network to effectively recreate 3D depth perception for the operating surgeon. Based on promising early results, Dr. Oermann believes that the enhanced endoscopic imaging has the potential to further democratize minimally invasive surgery. “The use of advanced surgical technology could help to increase access to quality surgical care for poorer communities.” This is one of many advancements ahead, he says. “We anticipate that our findings will be transferable to a range of problems across medicine and other domains.” Treating the Most Complex Airways Cases Aerodigestive Society leader discusses optimizing care for children with challenging conditions. Sentinel Node Biopsy: Lessening Surgical Burden in Oral Cancer Treatment New trial could offer evidence backing alternative to neck dissection. Multinerve Transfer Technique Improves Facial Reanimation Patients experience less synkinesis, better functional outcomes. Revision Cochlear Implant Surgery:Readying for a Growing Need While revision cochlear implant (CI) surgery has been relatively uncommon, occurring at rates ranging from 4 to 10 percent , it can be expected to increase in importance as more devices implanted over the past several decades age into failure. The most common indication is hard failure, but soft failures, infection and wound complications, improper initial placement, and electrode migration or extrusion can also require a revision procedure. “These are man-made devices, so the electronics can fail for various reasons. We are often talking about devices that were placed 30 or 40 years ago,” says Division of Otology, Neurotology, and Skull Base Surgery in NYU Langone Health’s Experts in the at NYU Langone Health have been performing revision surgery for decades. In a recent retrospective review of revision CI surgeries at the center (publication forthcoming), they found that the revision procedures led to similar clinical outcomes as the original implants. They reviewed 100 surgeries in 83 patients from 2011 to 2020. When available, intraoperative X-rays were independently reviewed by an experienced otologist to determine angular depth of insertion of the CI electrode. “Once you remove the very thin electrode, one challenge is to ensure we get a new device back into that one tiny opening again—the scar tissue must be cleared away.” “One of the concerns in these revisions is that there may be significant fibrosis. Once you remove the very thin electrode, one challenge is to ensure we get a new device back into that one tiny opening again—the scar tissue must be cleared away,” Dr. Jethanamest says. “We wanted to examine our surgery characteristics and evaluate the outcomes.” Importance of Surgical Imaging The center’s unique approach to surgical imaging developed over the years has been essential to its success with revision procedures, Dr. Jethanamest explains. “We take X-rays of the cochlear implant while we’re still in surgery. We try to capture the implant and its coil to ensure it is in the right position and it’s holding the right shape. Based on those X-rays, we can use a technique to calculate the angular insertion depth.” Before surgery, the surgical team establishes a comprehensive plan including technique, the best approach, and the appropriate device. “We have to remove the original device safely to ensure we don’t encounter any issues with local structures. Once we’ve replaced the electrode, we perform that X-ray and neurophysiologic tests to confirm that the implant is in position.” Choosing Replacement Implants Additionally, the team has found there are nuances in choosing a new CI device for revision surgery, notes Dr. Jethanamest. “We try to match up a modern device with one that has been working well, and we take care to think about the dimensions of contemporary electrodes and how they will fit in the existing spaces. The patient’s brain has adapted to a particular device, sometimes since childhood. Is it easy to do it again many years later? We don’t know.” “We take care to think about the dimensions of contemporary electrodes and how they will fit in the existing spaces.” Much of the new technology comes in the external pieces, Dr. Jethanamest says, and the manufacturers typically support their legacy devices. “For the most part, replacing a device with something similar seems to work out well, even if there is brand new technology and programming algorithms with the newer devices. Surgically, finding the right size and fit and getting the electrode back into position is our main goal.” Planning for an Increase in Patient Needs Dr. Jethanamest and his team aim to catalogue and review the different types of electrodes and how they perform over time, including new devices that continually become smaller and smarter. “For now, they are around 1 millimeter in diameter,” he says. “The question is, someday, when one of the slim ones fails, will we have even slimmer ones or different form factors altogether? Maybe something a little more rigid would help, but the flexible ones work as long as you can get the right anatomic exposure.” The researchers have also just completed a study, collaborating with colleagues in radiology, to evaluate a protocol for optimizing image quality and reducing the associated artifact of MRI in patients with CIs. Daniel Jethanamest, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery and director of the Division of Otology, Neurotology, and Skull Base Surgery. His research interests include cochlear implantation, speech perception, hearing loss, and acoustic neuromas. Presenters at the 2022 AAO-HNSF Annual Meeting￼ This September, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the AAO-HNSF Annual Meeting and OTO Experience in Philadelphia. This year’s program featured over 400 sessions complementing the meeting’s theme: Forward Together On September 11, 2022, Max April, MD Erich Voigt, MD , hosted live from the convention on SiriusXM’s . Featured guests included: 2 p.m.: Zara Patel, MD, (Stanford Health) discussed developments in the treatment of anosmia, sinus problems, and other post-COVID-19 illnesses. 2:30 p.m.: A talk with Ken Yanagisawa, MD, (AAO-HNSF President) and J. Thomas Roland. Jr., MD , brought us the latest discoveries in cochlear implants. 3 p.m.: Michael J. Rutter, MD, (Cincinnati Children’s Hospital) reviewed new advancements in pediatric otolaryngology. 3:30 p.m.: James C. Denneny III, MD, (Executive Vice President/CEO of AAO-HNSF) and colleagues presented the World Sinus Health Awareness Panel. Below are notable sessions from the conference featuring our faculty and fellows (see full listings of presenters at the links provided). Sunday, September 11 Oral Presentation Adjuvant Radiotherapy in Moderately Advanced (T3) Oral Cavity Cancers Speakers: Babak Givi, MD , associate professor; Alex Gordon, BS; Ronald Wang, BS; Alec Vaezi, MD , clinical associate professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 114LC Advanced Cochlear Implantation: Obstructed and Malformed Speaker: , Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 115B Discrepancies in Prices of FDA-Approved Agents for Head and Neck Cancer , associate professor; Alex Gordon, BS, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 126A Video Presentation World Sinus Health Awareness Location: 122AB Monday, September 12 Long-Term Outcomes Following Prolonged Mechanical Ventilation for COVID-19 Milan Amin, MD , professor; Tyler Crosby , fellow; Paul Kwak, MD , assistant professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 119B Otologic Adverse Events Due to Teprotumumab: A Prospective Assessment of 35 Patients Tuesday, September 13 , professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Facial Reanimation After Intratemporal Facial Nerve Schwannoma Resection: A Meta-Analysis David Friedmann, MD , associate professor; Judy Lee, MD , clinical associate professor; Antonios Varelas, MD , postgraduate year four resident, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 121AB Quantifying Facial Movement in Facial Palsy Patients Using Iphone Truedepth Technology , associate professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Wednesday, September 14 Measurement of Upper Airway Volume in Children with Craniofacial Abnormalities Leena Asfour, MD , chief resident; Alex Gordon, BS; Scott Rickert, MD , clinical assistant professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 107AB Personalized Two-Fraction SBRT for Localized Prostate Cancer A schematic of the precision two-fraction stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) protocol used in the study. Radiation oncologists at NYU Langone Health’s have pioneered a novel approach to treating localized prostate cancer that uses genomic classification of the tumor and radiographic data to personalize two-fraction stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). A recently launched phase 1/1B clinical study Jonathan W. Lischalk, MD , medical director at NYCyberKnife at Perlmutter Cancer Center—Manhattan , aims to evaluate the therapy, which can be delivered in as little as one week. Current five-fraction protocols are commonly delivered over nine weeks. A unique aspect of the approach is the ability to combine genetic profiling of the patient’s tumor with multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) to personalize treatment and deliver the requisite dosage of radiation. From a tumor biopsy, the team can assess whether the patient is low, intermediate, or high risk, and direct the appropriate dose of radiation to specific areas of concern using mpMRI. “Harnessing the specific genetic profile of the tumor cells and granular radiographic information identified on MRI, we can personalize treatment for each of our patients.” “Harnessing the specific genetic profile of the tumor cells and granular radiographic information identified on MRI, we can personalize treatment for each of our patients,” Dr. Lischalk says. “We are optimistic that long-term oncological outcomes can be improved by utilizing this approach.” The two-fraction study, which is only offered at two locations, in Manhattan and at Perlmutter Cancer Center on Long Island, is open to patients with low- to intermediate-risk prostate cancer. “Studies have shown that having nine weeks of radiation therapy is the most financially burdensome of any type of treatment for prostate cancer,” Dr. Lischalk says. “We’re trying to reduce that burden by moving people into a shorter course of treatment while simultaneously genetically and radiologically personalizing cancer care using a treatment technique pioneered here at NYU Langone.” Jonathan W. Lischalk, MD, is an assistant professor of radiation oncology, medical director of NYCyberKnife at Perlmutter Cancer Center—Manhattan, and director of research in the Department of Radiation Oncology at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. He specializes in treating prostate, lung, brain, and spine cancer using CyberKnife radiosurgery. Presenters at the 2024 AACR Annual Meeting This April, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) annual meeting in San Diego. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and fellows. Selective therapeutic antibodies against oncogenic mutations of the HER2 extracellular region LBPO.ET01 – Late-Breaking Research: Experimental and Molecular Therapeutics 1 Injin Bang, PhD Senior Author: 1:30–5:00PM Hepatocytes compensate for the loss of PHGDH in pancreatic cancer cells during liver metastasis Session PO.TB11.12 – Pancreatic Cancer Microenvironment Koelina Ganguly, MD 9:00AM–12:30PM Minisymposium TNG260, a small molecule CoREST inhibitor, sensitizes STK11-mutant NSCLC to anti-PD1 immunotherapy Session MS.IM01.02 – Immune Targets and Therapies Ayushi Patel, PhD Kwok-Kin Wong, MD, PhD 3:05–3:20PM A novel mouse model reveals potential therapeutic strategies for RIT1-driven lung adenocarcinomas MS.MCB03.01 – Novel Mechanisms of Oncogenesis and New Therapeutic Targets Alessandro Mauro Mozzarelli, PhD Pau Castel, PhD 3:20–3:35PM Tuesday, April 9 Topographical investigation of metabolites in excised squares (TIMES2): Comprehensive cross-sectional metabolite quantification of pancreatic cancer in vivo PO.MCB09.03 – Metabolomics Peter Yu, MD 9:00AM-12:30PM Oral microbiome and subsequent risk for head and neck squamous cell cancer development MS.PS01.01 – Molecular Epidemiology Soyoung Kwak, PhD Richard B. Hayes, DDS, MPH, PhD 3:35–3:50PM The gut microbiome is associated with recurrence free survival in patients with resected Stage III or Stage IV melanoma treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors Session PO.CL01.10 – Predictive Biomarkers 5 Mykhaylo Usyk, PhD candidate Jiyoung Ahn, PhD Wednesday, April 10 Major Symposium Cancer Metabolism Across Scales: From Organelles to Organisms 10:15–11:45AM Twin Studies Support Stereotactic Radiosurgery as Standard Practice Advances in Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS) over the past several decades have allowed cancer patients with multiple brain metastases to be treated using single or multiple fractions of radiation therapy. NYU Langone Health utilizes specialized Gamma Knife® SRS , and is a world leader in clinical and research application of this technology. “Our experts treat more over 600 patients each year using SRS, making NYU Langone one of the highest volume centers in the United States,” says Joshua Silverman, MD, PhD , an associate professor radiation oncology and neurosurgery who specializes in brain cancer. As few prior studies using SRS had included patients with larger numbers of brain metastases, Dr. Silverman and colleagues including , a professor of radiation oncology and neurosurgery, have undertaken several studies evaluating the use of Gamma Knife SRS in patients with ≥25 brain metastases—a population traditionally associated with poor prognosis. “For patients with multiple brain metastases, particularly in subsets that can be treated successfully with immunotherapy, or molecular targeted agents, these patients can often live for years.” Hippocampal Sparing with SRS In a recent dosimetric analysis of prospective registry data, they identified 89 patients treated with SRS for ≥25 brain metastases in single or multiple sessions. They analyzed the distribution of metastases relative to the hippocampal avoidance (HA)-region and hippocampi (HC), and measured the incidence of perihippocampal tumor location. Doses from each session were summed to calculate HC dose. Among the 89 patients, the median number of tumors irradiated per patient was 33 (range 25-116), delivered in a median of 3 (range 1-12) sessions. HC doses were significantly correlated with the tumor number and volume. Of 3,059 total treated tumors, 83 (2.7 percent) were located in the HA-region, affecting 57 percent of patients. The researchers also reported that 38 tumors (1.2 percent) abutted or involved the HC itself. “There may be improvement in neurocognitive outcomes with hippocampal sparing using SRS rather than hippocampal avoidance whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) techniques,” Dr. Silverman says. “Patients who receive WBRT often experience neurocognitive side effects, including short term memory loss and deficits in expressive language skills, shortly after treatment—SRS affords hippocampal sparing.” Prolonging Survival for Patients with Brain Metastases Dr. Silverman notes given more patients and brain metastases are being treated with SRS alone, it is important to understand how patient, tumor, and treatment factors affect functional status and overall survival. In a second study, the researchers examined survival outcomes and dosimetry to critical structures in 95 patients treated with Gamma Knife SRS for ≥25 metastases. They reported the median number of SRS sessions per patient was 3 (range 1-12), with nearly all patients (98%) having more than one session. On univariate analysis, factors significantly affecting overall survival included histology, tumor volume, tumor number, diagnosis-specific graded prognostic assessment, brain metastasis velocity, and need for subsequent WBRT. Results showed that in selected patients with a large number of cumulative brain metastases, multiple courses of SRS are feasible and safe. “Together with new systemic therapies, we observed survival rates that compare favorably to larger contemporary cohorts, while avoiding WBRT in most patients,” Dr. Silverman says. “Our findings support SRS as a standard practice in selected patients with larger numbers of brain metastases.” Joshua Silverman, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of radiation oncology and neurosurgery. His research aims to improve survival and quality of life for patients with brain cancer. Corralling T Cells Inside Tumors Boosts Efficacy of Immunotherapy in Melanoma Blocking a chemokine signaling pathway keeps immune fighters from escaping into lymphatic vessels. Sparking a Metabolic Crisis to Shrink Pancreatic Tumors Researchers who identified amino acid transporter key to tumor growth are seeking inhibitors to target it. Urging Awareness of Paraneoplastic Syndromes A neuroimmuno-oncology expert draws attention to complex neurological symptoms related to cancer and immunotherapies. Enzyme Discovery Unlocks Potential New Treatments for Cancer & Neurodevelopmental Disease Investigation into how cells use oxygen sparks new insights into multiple diseases, including a newly recognized neurological disorder. Telehealth tDCS Shows Promise for Neurologic Symptoms of Long COVID Leigh E. Charvet, MD 6 percent of adults in the United States are currently experiencing post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC), also known as “long COVID.” To treat the syndrome’s neurologic symptoms, some researchers are investigating transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), an experimental therapy that has been used successfully to mitigate cognitive, motor, speech, and mood problems that can occur in a wide range of neurologic and psychiatric conditions. To date, however, only a few small clinical trials of tDCS in patients with PASC have been completed. The NIH recently launched a larger study that aims, in part, to clarify the method’s utility. The RECOVER-NEURO trial is testing tDCS alongside other interventions for cognitive dysfunction related to long COVID, including brain fog, memory deficits, and difficulties with attention and problem-solving. “This is the first nationwide, controlled clinical trial to directly address PASC-mediated cognitive dysfunction.” The phase 2 clinical trial will evaluate a web-based brain training program, BrainHQ, both alone and in tandem with tDCS or PASC-Cognitive Recovery, a web-based goal-management training program for people with PASC. BrainHQ will also be tested against an active comparator (video games) and paired with sham tDCS using devices from the manufacturer. These therapies will be administered via telehealth to patients across the United States under the supervision of co-principal investigator at NYU Langone Health and a leading researcher of tDCS’s potential for treating PASC. “This is the first nationwide, controlled clinical trial to directly address PASC-mediated cognitive dysfunction,” Dr. Charvet notes. Applying Findings from Multiple Sclerosis Over the past decade, Dr. Charvet has pioneered the use of home-based cognitive rehabilitation for patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). She was an early adopter of BrainHQ, whose efficacy she helped establish through clinical trials. Adding tDCS to that regimen, she found, significantly enhanced its cognitive impacts—a discovery that led her to shift her research focus to expanding the use of tDCS to reach patients at home through telehealth. The method has shown promise for patients with MS, stroke, Parkinson’s disease, and many other conditions, improving cognitive and motor symptoms, for instance, and also as a treatment for depression. “Imaging studies show that functional targeting with tDCS can strengthen neuroplasticity and increase blood flow in the brain,” she explains. “This can translate to a wide range of clinical benefits.” In 2019, Dr. Charvet began offering tDCS via telehealth to patients across the United States . The following year, when the COVID-19 pandemic struck, people with PASC started calling the clinic, asking if they could try tDCS. “They were just desperate for treatment,” Dr. Charvet recalls. She and her team worked with patients with PASC and their referring physicians to design remote treatment protocols, sparing COVID long-haulers—who were often experiencing severe debilitation—the necessity of office visits. “Our goal is to provide patients with long COVID an accessible, evidence-based treatment approach that will improve their quality of life.” Anecdotally, the initial results were promising. “Our patients told us they were getting better,” Dr. Charvet says. Since then, she and her team have expanded both the clinical tDCS Program and their research efforts. Dr. Charvet has collaborated with colleagues at NYU Langone and elsewhere on preliminary studies of tDCS for PASC, which suggest that the method, paired with rehabilitation programs, can reduce fatigue and anxiety improve cognitive functions in people with the syndrome. She also helped design the protocol for the RECOVER-NEURO trial—part of the NIH’s RECOVER initiative, which strives to understand the biological processes driving long COVID and to identify effective treatments. Colleague , director of NYU Langone’s heart failure program, is principal investigator of the RECOVER Clinical Science Core. Seeking Answers with a Nationwide Trial RECOVER-NEURO will enroll a target of 315 patients from centers across the United States to its five arms, Dr. Charvet says. Once enrolled, participants will be referred to NYU Langone, which will centrally deliver the interventions to patients at home using their established telehealth protocols. Each participant will have five, 30-minute telehealth sessions per week for 10 weeks. The trial’s primary objective is to evaluate each intervention’s effect on cognitive function versus a comparator. “Our goal,” says Dr. Charvet, “is to be able to provide patients with long COVID an accessible, evidence-based treatment approach that will improve their quality of life and enable them to return to their responsibilities at home and at work.” Creating Foundational AI Models for the Health System Clinical predictive models can help physicians and administrators forecast hospital readmission and other healthcare factors, influencing decisions about patient care. While existing computer models rely on structured data neatly organized in tables, the resources required to organize data from clinical notes have made it challenging to deploy models in real time. Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) with large language models (LLMs) have the potential to resolve this by using an LLM to read and interpret physicians’ clinical notes. study recently published in , NYU Langone Health researchers used unstructured clinical notes to train NYUTron, a medical LLM, on 10 years of system-wide electronic health records (EHRs). The tool—currently in use in NYU Langone hospitals to predict the chances that a patient who is discharged will be readmitted within a month—is being trained for a wide range of other tasks. The study is the first application of an LLM successfully deployed in real time in a clinical setting. “Our hypothesis was we can use large language models as the primary means of interfacing with the EHR. We can then take the wealth of unstructured data, use the LLM to interact with it, and build other tools on top of it.” “Our hypothesis was we can use large language models as the primary means of interfacing with the EHR. We can then take the wealth of unstructured data, use the language model to interact with it, and build other tools on top of it,” says , senior author on the study. Real-Time Predictions For the study, the researchers evaluated five predictive tasks: 30-day all-cause readmission, in-hospital mortality, comorbidity index, length of stay, and insurance denial. Across the five tasks, NYUTron had an area under the curve (AUC) of 78.7 to 94.9 percent, with an improvement of 5.36 to 14.7 percent in the AUC compared with traditional models. “NYUTron has the potential to predict many care factors for which no predictive models currently exist.” “NYUTron has the potential to predict many care factors for which no predictive models currently exist. Or they do, but NYUTron works better, because the model is exposed to things that existing predictive models cannot access,” says Dr. Oermann. LLMs for Medical Use LLMs are most famous for their generative capacities in tools like ChatGPT. Beyond generative AI, they include a wide range of functionalities, including the ability to read and make meaning of data. Instead of generating content, NYUTron reads, interprets, and utilizes existing notes written by physicians in the EHR to make predictions. This advancement allows researchers to build a comprehensive picture of a patient’s medical state to make more-accurate predictions that inform patient care. The study had four steps: data collection, pretraining, fine-tuning, and deployment. Data included 7.25 million clinical notes from over 387,000 patients across four hospitals. This resulted in a 4.1-billion-word dataset, NYU Notes, that captures data from January 2011 to May 2020. Relative to many industry LLMs, this is a small dataset. The promising results from the study indicate the potential of research with smaller, more focused LLMs as opposed to generative models pretrained on large, nonspecific datasets. 30-Day Readmission Of the five areas researchers examined, the 30-day readmission prediction was the one they highlighted, “mainly due to the historical significance,” says Dr. Oermann. “People have been trying to predict 30-day readmission since the 1980s.” Real-world patient outcomes are tied to 30-day readmissions, making it significant for patients, clinicians, and hospital administrators. Researchers deployed NYUTron in real time to assess how well it predicted 30-day readmission against six physicians. NYUTron performed better than physicians and against other LLMs that were not pretrained on clinical notes. Generalizability Across Hospitals Developing and training AI models that retain performance across locations and medical populations has been a challenge with AI in healthcare. “With our experiments, as expected, there was a performance drop between , because the patient populations are different,” Dr. Oermann says. “We salvaged the performance drop by fine-tuning the model locally.” Beyond the five tasks evaluated in the study, the research team is working on around a hundred potential new tasks for the LLM to evaluate with the help of the Predictive Analytics Unit at NYU Langone. Additionally, the researchers are developing a consortium to share these techniques with other academic medical centers. Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Expanding the Clinical Toolkit The global prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is approximately 25 percent , but can rise rapidly in the context of additional risk factors, such as obesity and type 2 diabetes. NAFLD can be histologically divided into non-alcoholic fatty liver (isolated hepatic steatosis) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Research suggests that the stage of liver fibrosis is the most important determinant of patient outcomes and mortality. “Patients with NASH and advanced hepatic fibrosis are at significant risk for liver-related complications, including hepatocellular carcinoma, end-stage liver disease, and the need for liver transplantation,” says hepatology director Ira M. Jacobson, MD. For affected patients, Dr. Jacobson describes several strategies that can promote timely diagnosis, plus new treatments on the horizon. Non-invasive Diagnosis Non-invasive tests , including blood tests and imaging modalities, have emerged as useful techniques to diagnose and stage NAFLD. Since clinical presentation is often non-specific, patients are not suspected of having liver disease until they develop late stage cirrhosis, Dr. Jacobson says. “Patients may have had years of minimally elevated alanine aminotransferase levels, that were not recognized as potentially portending progressive liver disease. Only a small proportion of cases are identified in the primary care setting.” While liver biopsy remains the gold standard in diagnosing and predicting the severity of NAFLD, there are drawbacks including its inherent invasiveness and significant sampling variability Among a variety of blood-based parameters, the Fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4) is simple and can be used to diagnose and stage fibrosis. FIB-4 can be easily calculated online in less than a minute using common laboratory findings combined with the patient’s age. It has well established cutoff values for predicting the presence or absence of advanced scarring or cirrhosis, although indeterminate values may occur. maging modalities , such as vibration-controlled transient elastography, supersonic shear imaging, and magnetic resonance elastography can help quantify the degree of scarring, Jacobson says. “Radiographic evaluation using elastography to determine the degree of fibrosis is based on liver stiffness, a property that is conferred by scar tissue.” New Drugs To date, no drugs have been FDA-approved for the treatment of NAFLD, although several are under investigation, with multiple trials ongoing at NYU Langone A key goal of pharmalogic therapy is to promote weight loss, particularly in those who fail to achieve their goals through diet and exercise alone. One drug class, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1) agonists, is used extensively in diabetic patients and works in substantial part by inducing weight loss. “The recent approval of the first GLP1 agonist specifically for weight loss was an important advance,” explains Jacobson. “GLP1 agonists alone or in combination with other agents are being studied for NAFLD in ongoing clinical trials.” Additional drug classes under investigation include farnesoid X peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor receptor agonists, FGF19 and FGF21 analogs thyroid hormone receptor beta-selective agonists “Novel therapies targeting not one, but multiple features of this condition hold great promise.” Ira M. Jacobson, MD “Currently, there are over 50 investigational drugs being evaluated in NAFLD,” says Jacobson. “Novel therapies targeting not one, but multiple features of this condition hold great promise.” Hepatology, Gastroenterology Ira M. Jacobson, MD, is a professor of medicine and serves as director of hepatology. He is a recognized expert in the treatment of liver disease, including viral hepatitis B and C and other liver conditions. Eyeing the Future of Neurosurgery The field of neurosurgery has made rapid advances in recent decades, propelled by innovations in imaging and surgical navigation, as well as forward movement in new surgical techniques. Still, the greatest era of innovation may be ahead with the rise of artificial intelligence (AI), big data, and related technologies. To learn more about the potential future of neurosurgery research, spoke with , the current editor-in-chief of Neurosurgery Publications , and its flagship journal, . Dr. Kondziolka is one of the world’s leading neurosurgeons with a clinical and research focus in stereotactic radiosurgery and has played an active leadership role in disseminating neurosurgical research internationally. He served as associate editor of the before assuming the editorship of Taking the Helm As you became editor-in-chief of in 2022, what has been your vision for the journal itself? Dr. Kondziolka: Being one of the world’s preeminent journals of neurosurgical research, we want to continue attracting the very best content. That not only means evaluating articles and getting quality reviews back to the authors quickly, but also being at the forefront in disseminating information through different media forms—video content, podcasts, and also providing articles in audio format. One of my visions is to make quality science accessible globally—and by that I mean accessible not just among the scientific community, but also to a public who may not be so versed in English. We now have a platform called Neurosurgery Speaks , which offers translated audio abstracts in nearly a dozen different languages. I hope the journal continues advancing more multilingual options. Big Data’s Impact on Research Looking at the current state of neurosurgical research, what are the most prominent trends? Sophisticated data analysis is increasingly informing neurosurgical research. As part of this focus on data analytics, there’s a growing interest in having large datasets to work with. But those aren’t easy to obtain: No single institution has the ability to put together data on thousands of brain tumors, for instance. So, there’s a strong emphasis right now on establishing national data registries through the National Institutes of Health and other national and international organizations. There is a related push to incorporate greater detail into patient records. Fortunately, electronic health record (EHR) systems are making it much easier by enabling high-quality, point-of-care data collection that also tracks patient outcomes longitudinally. We’re building these systems here at NYU Langone, and others are doing it as well. At the same time, researchers and technology companies are developing better ways to extract data from EHRs using natural language processing and other means. “Ultimately, the vision is to mine that data on a continuous basis to determine which treatment models are working best, and to report on findings virtually in real time.” Ultimately, the vision is to mine that data on a continuous basis to determine which treatment models are working best, and to report on findings virtually in real time. Where are the advances in data having the greatest impact today? One area is the interpretation of imaging. An entirely new field now exists, radiomics, that uses AI to understand imaging results. An MRI scan image actually contains hundreds of pieces of information, most of which the human brain can’t see—but a computer can. There’s even work underway on analytic techniques for identifying the genetic makeup of tumors and other diseases based on imaging. As this science develops, we’ll be able to learn much more about the nature and progression of diseases from various types of scans, which in turn will impact how we deal with them surgically. In my own specialty of radiosurgery, we recently finished an extensive analysis of acoustic neuroma cases that showed hearing loss outcomes were the same in patients who had their tumors removed with radiosurgery and patients who didn’t get treatment, but instead had the tumor observed. Previously, we thought hearing was more likely to be spared in the observed group, so this finding changes that thinking. “It is our hope that putting our data out there for public use will accelerate scientific research on this major cancer topic.” Recently, our own program at NYU Langone released the world’s largest imaging and clinical dataset on brain metastases care, called NYU Mets , for open access research. It includes serial images and clinical information during the course of care, with segmented brain tumor volumes to assess response. It is our hope that putting our data out there for public use will accelerate scientific research on this major cancer topic. The Future of Spinal and Cerebrovascular Neurosurgery What advances are most impacting your specific areas of cerebrovascular and spinal neurosurgery? With cerebrovascular neurosurgery, the field is advancing all the time—especially around endovascular approaches to stroke care and aneurysm treatments. New devices are constantly being developed to repair aneurysms more gently and reduce stroke risks. From a research standpoint, there are many studies being done in this area involving our department and others across the country. Once again, much of that research comes back to using data analysis to determine how we can best manage these conditions more effectively and safely. Regarding spine, given our aging population in the United States, the surgical treatment of spinal degenerative deformity is certainly an important area. There’s a good deal of interest in helping older individuals stand straighter and maintain healthy spinal function as they age. Surgically Managing a Rare Complication of NF1 Dystrophic Scoliosis Imaging upon presentation demonstrates complete lateral subluxation of T4 on T5 as seen on anteroposterior X-ray (A) and corneal CT (B). MRI showed severe spinal cord compression at the junction of the subluxation (C and D). A Spontaneous Subluxation When a 17-year-old, neurologically normal male patient diagnosed with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and scoliosis experienced an extremely rare complication—a complete spontaneous lateral subluxation of his T4 and T5 vertebrae, dislocating the spine and compressing the spinal cord—a carefully planned intervention leveraging the most advanced surgical techniques and intraoperative imaging offered hope of restored mobility and a return to sports. The young male had been followed for his scoliosis and was an established patient at NYU Langone Health’s . With the sudden and atypical spinal dislocation, he was referred to Darryl Lau, MD , an assistant professor of neurosurgery and director of complex spine and spinal deformity at NYU Langone. Dr. Lau confirmed that for such a high degree of spinal instability and spinal cord compression, intervention was urgent to preserve the patient’s neurologic function. “In NF1 and dystrophic scoliosis, spontaneous subluxation can occur in cases where the disease has progressed severely. . . . [S]uch complex disease involving tumor, spinal cord injury, and scoliosis becomes a case for neurosurgery.” “In NF1 and dystrophic scoliosis, spontaneous subluxation can occur in cases where the disease has progressed severely. Combination of tumor growth, dural ectasia, and likely other unknown factors result in bony changes leading to instability,” Dr. Lau explains. “You would rarely see this severe of a fracture even with trauma, and such complex disease involving tumor, spinal cord injury, and scoliosis becomes a case for neurosurgery.” A Rare Case for Surgery Surgical treatment for NF1 dystrophic scoliosis is extremely challenging due to abnormal bony anatomy (inability to gain adequate spinal fixation), dural ectasia resulting in cerebrospinal fluid leak, and the need for tumor resection. After first attempting to realign the spine through halo gravity traction and seeing only minimal reduction in vertebral translocation, Dr. Lau and a multidisciplinary team planned a multilevel vertebral body resection and spinal reconstruction. While resection of the widespread tumor tissue typically observed in NF1 is not a primary goal of these procedures, notes Dr. Lau, significant resection was needed simply to enable the approach to this patient’s spine. Due to the volume of tumor tissue in the thoracic spine, which had thinned out the ribs and vertebral bodies and likely contributed to the translocation, the surgical team had to forego pedicle screws and instead employed a traditional method of laminar banding to the spine. The intricate spacing of screws would have been impossible without NYU Langone’s advanced intraoperative CT and navigation systems, notes Dr. Lau. Although vertebral column resections are typically reserved for the most severe deformities as this technique involves intricate work around the spinal cord and nerves, in this case both T4 and T5 were removed to facilitate complete reduction and achieve alignment. Improving Patient Outcomes Patients with NF1 having complex spinal reconstructions need to be carefully monitored for pseudarthrosis and mechanical failure years down the line, but this patient is recovering well, says Dr. Lau. His team’s combination of ever-expanding surgical expertise and new intraoperative technologies is allowing the Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Center to take on a growing number of patients whose complex scoliosis, spinal tumors, and their concomitant effects would have once been inoperable, he notes. A Rigid Deformity Despite five weeks of traction, there was minimal to no reduction or movement of the T4 and T5 subluxation. Pre-traction (A) and post-traction (B) images are shown. Dr. Lau first recommended an attempt to realign the spine through halo gravity traction in the hope of offering a less invasive surgery. However, after five weeks in the hospital having traction, the patient exhibited only minimal reduction in vertebral translocation, and a multilevel vertebral body resection and spinal reconstruction was scheduled. Tumor Prevents Traditional Fixation CT scan showing dysmorphic vertebrae and dysplastic pedicle that are noncontiguous with the corresponding vertebral bodies. Significant resection was needed simply to enable the approach to this patient’s spine. The volume of tumor tissue in the thoracic spine had thinned out the ribs and vertebral bodies, likely contributing to the translocation. Typically, pedicle screws are inserted in order to fixate, stabilize, and reduce the scoliotic spine into place. However, this patient’s bone had been worn too thin. Vertebral Column Resection Intraoperative photo of the final construct following scoliosis and subluxation correction with decompression of the spinal cord. Construct spans C7 to T10 with hybrid fixation of laminar bands (black arrows) and pedicle screws. The surgical team employed a traditional method of laminar banding to the spine, strategically interspersing screws where supportive bone was available. In this case, both T4 and T5 were removed to completely disconnect the spinal column to facilitate complete reduction and achieve perfect alignment. The looped bands and screws were used to pull the spine back into a normal position. Direct Spine Realignment Postoperative X-rays show construct from C7 to T10. Patient is now well aligned with complete reduction of subluxation and correction of scoliosis. With postoperative X-ray confirming direct realignment of the spine, the patient completed a brief inpatient stay without complications and walked out of the hospital to return home to recover. His neurologic function remained intact. Neurosurgery, Pediatric Neurosurgery, Spine Surgery Darryl Lau, MD, is an assistant professor of neurosurgery and director of complex spine and adult spinal deformity at NYU Langone. He specializes in complex spine, scoliosis, spinal deformity, revision surgery, spinal oncology, and spinal reconstruction and was dual fellowship-trained in both adult and pediatric neurosurgery and orthopedic surgery. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AANS Annual Scientific Meeting This year, physicians representing the Department of Neurosurgery at NYU Langone Health gave speeches, presented cases, led panel discussions, and facilitated courses at the annual meeting of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons. View full conference information here. Notable sessions at this year’s conference included: Friday, April 29 Course Practical Clinic 205 Technological Adjuncts for Malignant Brain Tumor Surgery Course Director: Saturday, April 30 Abstract Discussant: A Multi-center Study of Intra-operative, in Vivo, Optics-based Detection of Brain Tumor Tissue Using Raman Spectroscopy and Machine Learning Discussant: Daniel A. Orringer, MD Monday, May 2 Cerebrovascular Rapid Fire Session Abstract Session Moderator: Speaker Session Intra-operative Histology & AI Image Analysis Community Speaker: Daniel A. Orringer, MD Socioeconomic Rapid Fire Session 485 – Influence of Healthcare Disparities on Outcomes for Spinal Metastasis Patients Case Presentation and Panel Discussion Transvenous AVM Treatment, CSF-venous Fistulae, MMA Embo for CSDH, ICH, Venous Stenting for IIH, DVST Panel Discussion/Q&A Interesting Cases Community Panelist: Daniel A. Orringer, MD Cerebrovascular Abstract Session Abstract Session Moderator: Erez Nossek, MD Panel Discussion Session VII, Panel II: Treatment of Middle Cerebral and Basilar Tip Aneurysms Discussant: Howard A. Riina, MD In One Day, Surgeons Resect Tumor, Restore Hearing, and Initiate Facial Reanimation in NF2 Patient SOURCE: NYU Langone Simplifying Surgery For a Complex Clinical Picture With neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2), aggressive tumor growth can result in a complex clinical portrait including facial paralysis and partial or complete hearing loss. Typically, surgical treatment for advanced cases might include three or more separate surgeries to remove the tumor(s), place an auditory brainstem implant (ABI) or cochlear implant (CI), and reanimate the facial nerves. When a patient with NF2 experiencing symptom escalation—including total hearing loss and facial paralysis—was referred to the , a team co-led by , chair of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery, targeted an ambitious goal: achieving tumor resection, hearing restoration, and facial nerve reanimation in a single surgery. “I wasn’t sure it had ever been done before. But the patient was ready to move toward recovery, so she opted for the single procedure.” “Once this patient could no longer communicate or control her facial function, it became clear that the tumor was aggressive enough to warrant action,” Dr. Roland says. “I wasn’t sure it had ever been done before. But the patient was ready to move toward recovery, so she opted for the single procedure.” Integrating the patient’s surgical needs into a single-day procedure required orchestration between neurosurgery, neurotology, audiology, plastic surgery, and facial reanimation specialists. “The teamwork between our neurosurgeon and neurotologist allows us to tackle the most difficult tumors with confidence,“ says , chair of the Department of Neurosurgery. “Based on our extensive experience in NF2 within neurosurgery and ENT, it’s unlikely to encounter anything we haven’t seen before.” The team successfully performed the tandem procedure, removing the patient’s tumor, restoring her hearing, and reinnervating her facial movement. Her quality of life has returned far sooner than would have been possible through multiple surgeries. A Symptomatic, Treatment-Refractory Tumor The patient experienced single-sided deafness after undergoing a prior surgery at another center for a right-sided vestibular schwannoma (pre-surgery photo shown). Sudden symptom escalation prompted her to seek urgent consultation, and a single, complex surgery was planned to treat tumor recurrence. Phase One, Tumor Resection, Complete With the tumor resected, Dr. Roland applied a technique he pioneered, facial-to-hypoglossal neurorrhaphy with parotid release. He dissected the distal portion of the facial nerve and released the parotid gland, then connected the facial nerve to another adjacent nerve. The approach reduces the number of needed anastomoses, which eliminates half available nerve fibers. The facial reanimation team, composed of head and neck and facial plastic surgeons, completed a number of other nerve transfers to the facial nerve using a technique they have pioneered. Auditory Brainstem Implant Successfully Placed While a CI can be placed if there is an appearance of functioning cochlear nerve, the tumor had grown so rapidly that it compromised the cochlear and facial nerves, indicating an ABI would be more effective. The patient’s auditory brainstem responses were assessed by William Shapiro, AUD , co-director of the , to ensure adequate ABI paddle placement. Building Implantable Tech for Real-Time Seizure Data Prototype implantable devices are moving into development, with the potential to fill major knowledge gaps in epilepsy research by offering real-time, state-of-the-art seizure monitoring. Nearly one-third of patients living with epilepsy experience persistent, intractable seizures that do not respond to medication. The new technology could peel back the curtain about why this occurs. “We now have the opportunity to build a new, ultrathin implantable device that can have thousands of measurement contacts instead of dozens,” says professor , co-director of the video electroencephalogram laboratory and member of the Prototype Successes The implant—a flexible, liquid crystal polymer surrounding hundreds of thousands of electrodes—was developed via an expansive public-private partnership that recently earned $8 million from the NIH’s Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies® (BRAIN) Initiative. The funding will be shared between NYU’s Center for Neural Science , Duke University, the University of Utah, and Blackrock Neurotech. The collaborative team has already developed and tested several prototypes capable of collecting neural data directly before, during, and after seizures. Their most recent iteration was successfully implanted and tested intraoperatively for up to 30 minutes in dozens of patients across the institutions. The researchers report their brain-machine interface achieves “25× higher electrode density, 20× higher channel count, and 11× reduced stiffness than conventional clinical electrodes.” Further Development, Plus a Clinic Trial With the new NIH support, the team will develop a further refined version of the device that can be implanted for up to 30 days. They anticipate the device will enable high-density sampling across multiple brain regions. A phase I clinical trial will follow initial testing, during which Dr. Friedman will serve as a site principal investigator. The overarching goal is to capture a high-definition picture of brain microsignals that occur moments before epileptic seizures. Such data have been previously unobtainable, and are a critical step toward neurostimulative therapies designed to prevent debilitating seizures in patients with epilepsy. Says Dr. Friedman, “Current technology used to capture brain activity related to epileptic seizure is decades old, and has limited our progress in developing new treatments.” “Current technology used to capture brain activity related to epileptic seizure is decades old, and has limited our progress in developing new treatments.” A Gateway to New Therapies Indeed, neurostimulation as a potential treatment for neurologic conditions emerged in the 1980s . Since then, treatment options have vastly expanded to include laser ablation, precision surgeries, catheter-based interventions, and more. Similarly, implantable tech has evolved to offer unprecedented benefits . Patients can now control computer systems and even prosthetic devices simply by thinking, Dr. Friedman says. Previous research by Dr. Friedman and others has shown the promise of advanced seizure treatments made possible through implantable devices, including vagus nerve stimulation, responsive neurostimulation, and deep brain stimulation. Data from the implantable devices could open the door for more personalized interventions using these and other modalities for patients with epilepsy. More broadly, the devices could provide critical data to understand exactly why their seizures occur in the first place. A Two-Pronged Pharmaceutic Approach to Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention Alzheimer’s disease research has long focused primarily on drugs that may reduce amyloid plaques as a potential treatment. Recently, however, monoclonal antibodies that target tau tangles have also begun to show promise. The decade-old Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer’s Network Trial Unit (DIAN-TU)—an international public–private partnership focused on dominantly inherited Alzheimer’s disease (DIAD)—is currently enrolling participants for its first phase 2/3 trial of such a drug. The Tau NexGen trial, as it is known, is also the first Alzheimer’s disease prevention study to target tau tangles and amyloid plaques with two drugs simultaneously. The global, multicenter trial is testing E2814, an investigational anti-microtubule binding region tau antibody, in conjunction with the FDA-approved anti-amyloid drug lecanemab. “I believe that combination therapeutic approaches to Alzheimer’s disease are the wave of the future.” NYU Langone Health is the only Tau NexGen study site in the New York tristate area, drawing in patients from throughout the region. The site principal investigator is Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center Center for Cognitive Neurology “I believe that combination therapeutic approaches to Alzheimer’s disease are the wave of the future,” says Dr. Wisniewski, an internationally recognized expert on amyloid deposition who has contributed to the development of several novel biomarkers and treatments for the disease. “In this disorder, where you have two pathologies—the accumulations of amyloid beta and abnormally phosphorylated tau—it’s essential to address both to have a maximum impact.” A One-Two Punch The Tau NexGen trial includes patients who are both presymptomatic and symptomatic for DIAD. Participants in the former group are cognitively healthy but are biologically characterized as accumulating tau “seeds” in the brain. Symptomatic participants have early cognitive impairment and are characterized by neurofibrillary tangle spread. The trial will assess the safety, tolerability, biomarker, and cognitive efficacy of multiple anti-tau drugs, beginning with E2814. Lecanemab will serve as the “background” anti-amyloid therapy. Presymptomatic patients will be randomly assigned to receive E2814 or a placebo for a year before beginning lecanemab. By staggering the therapies in this manner, the investigators will be able to evaluate the effects of the anti-tau drug alone before assessing the impact of both drugs together. Because amyloid plaques accumulate before tau tangles in Alzheimer’s disease, the study team aims to assess whether amyloid removal clears the way for an anti-tau drug to function most effectively. “In this disorder where you have two pathologies, it’s essential to address both to have a maximum impact.” If the primary and secondary endpoints are shown to be positive after two years, the study will be extended for another two years to assess whether E2814 slows cognitive decline in symptomatic patients and has further effects on tau pathology. Home Field Advantages An unusual aspect of the Tau NexGen trial design is that intravenous medications will be administered in patients’ homes by nurse practitioners and infusion nurses, removing a common barrier to participation. “A big stumbling block for these types of intravenous biologics is the hassle of having to come into an infusion center every few weeks,” Dr. Wisniewski notes. “Home-based care is a big advantage for patients and their families.” An added advantage for the NYU Langone trial site is that, unlike many centers, it has an in-house facility for synthesizing tracers for amyloid and tau PET imaging. “These ligands often have very short half-lives, which can create logistical problems when they have to come from an outside manufacturer,” Dr. Wisniewski says. “Being able to make ours in-house will help us get these potentially beneficial medications to as many patients as possible.” Neuropathology, Dementia & Alzheimer’s Thomas M. Wisniewski, MD, is the Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman Professor of New York University Alzheimer’s Disease Center and director of the Center for Cognitive Neurology. His research interests focus on the mechanisms that drive amyloid deposition in Alzheimer’s and prion diseases. Maximizing the Impact of IBD Treatment David P. Hudesman, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff The expansion in therapeutic options for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) means that more patients achieve remission and a smaller proportion require surgery than years past. The challenge now lies in identifying avenues for early intervention and tailoring therapy to optimize response, says David P. Hudesman, MD at NYU Langone Health. “We have multiple different treatment options, a lot more than we had just five years ago, but the challenge today is determining how to pick the right drug for the right patient,” Dr. Hudesman says. Currently, he and NYU Langone colleagues are leading an expansive array of studies—from clinical trials focused on optimizing approved therapies to projects aimed at assembling a suite of medical and surgical risk prediction tools—to drive improvements in treatment along multiple fronts. Optimizing Therapy One trial that recently finished enrollment is a prospective cohort study to identify predictors of response to tofacitinib for patients with ulcerative colitis. Dr. Hudesman, who is serving as the principal investigator, says genetic data, blood immune profiles, stool microbiota, and cellular and molecular profiles of tissue biopsies are all being used to create a treatment response model. Any predictive biomarkers identified will be validated against datasets from larger studies. Another clinical trial led by Dr. Hudesman is evaluating the benefit of higher doses of ustekinumab early in therapy for patients with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease. “The standard dosing is not going to work for all our patients. And if we optimize drugs earlier on, we’re more likely to improve clinical remission rates,” he says. Parallel research from Jordan E. Axelrad, MD, MPH , director of clinical and translational research at the IBD Center, and national collaborators is supporting the use of these effective agents in an expanded patient population. Their initial analysis of data from the prospective SAPPHIRE registry indicates that tofacitinib, ustekinumab and other newer immunosuppressive agents are not associated with new or recurrent cancer in patients with IBD and a recent history of cancer. Predicting Risk Placing focus on IBD in older adults, , an assistant professor of medicine and population health, has found that antibiotic use is a risk factor for adult-onset disease . Older adults represent one of the fastest growing populations of patients developing IBD, with upwards of 15 percent of new cases occurring in individuals over 60. In a study presented at Digestive Disease Week 2022, Dr. Faye and his research team analyzed data from over 2.3 million individuals aged 60 to 90, finding that a single course of antibiotics raises the risk of developing IBD by 27 percent, while five or more courses raises the risk by 236 percent. Almost all antibiotic classes were associated with the development of IBD, but those used for gastrointestinal pathogens were associated with the highest risk. Ongoing research from Dr. Faye and colleagues, including gastroenterologist , is defining sarcopenia as a risk factor for IBD, while Dr. Axelrad recently received funding from the NIH to continue his research on enteric pathogens as environmental factors in IBD Getting Ahead of Complications Investigators at NYU Langone are also researching ways to improve the success of disease-related surgery , which remains an essential treatment option for IBD, and better address extra-intestinal manifestations of the disease A dual-center study between NYU Langone and Cleveland Clinic led by Dr. Axelrad has determined anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agents to be effective at reducing postoperative recurrence of Crohn’s disease when given within four weeks of ileocecal resection. And work led by Simon J. Hong, MD , in collaboration with colleagues within rheumatology finds that two surveys validated for screening joint symptoms are effective at flagging IBD-related arthritis “Across our studies, we are furthering our understanding of the pathogenesis of IBD and its extra-intestinal manifestations, personalizing both medical and surgical treatment, with the hope to bring new insights into prevention of disease,” Dr. Hudesman says. David P. Hudesman, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and co-director of the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center. His research interests include uncovering new treatment options for people with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis, development of biomarkers to predict response to therapy, and optimization of inflammatory bowel disease therapies. Ergonomic Factors in Endoscopy: Addressing the Training Gap Practitioner injuries are widespread and early onset—new guidelines aim to stem the problem. Calculator Predicts Risk of Early-Onset Colorectal Cancer A model incorporating lifestyle, genetic factors could pinpoint high-risk young adults. Deep Tumors Fully Resected with Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Outpatient procedure helps more patients avoid esophagectomy. Anemia of ‘Unknown Origin’ Revealed to Be Caused by Large Hiatal Hernia Minimally invasive paraesophageal hernia repair resolved anemia as well as debilitating vomiting, retching. New Strategies to Increase Colon Cancer Screening Rates As revised guidelines widen eligibility, new tools could help overcome barriers to colon cancer screening. New Strategies to Personalize IBD Treatment An innovative care model and emerging research present opportunities to reduce the burden of severe IBD complications. Journey to a Treatment for Zoster Eye Disease Citicoline Protects Against Neurodegeneration in Glaucoma without Altering IOP Visual brain signals were restored to near-normal levels in a murine model. An Expanding Place for Neuro-Ophthalmology The editor of the Journal of Neuro-Ophthalmology explains how vision-based testing is changing neurologic research. Building the Case for Descemet Stripping Only in Fuchs Dystrophy Despite early skepticism, the pioneering treatment amasses a record of compelling cases. Helping Women Ascend the Ophthalmic Pyramid New faculty leaders at NYU Langone Health aim to redress longstanding inequities across the specialty. Navigating Evolving Options for Glaucoma Surgery Micro-invasive glaucoma surgeries (MIGS) are widely used today by both glaucoma specialists and comprehensive ophthalmologists. They are safer than traditional glaucoma surgeries such as trabeculectomy and drainage implants and provide modest intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction. However, while many MIGS procedures try to help improve the eye’s physiologic outflow, glaucoma is not a simple problem, says Joseph F. Panarelli, MD , director of glaucoma services in the “We now have a full spectrum of glaucoma treatments. The question is how to identify the best treatments for our patients who have different levels of disease severity, different ages, and different types or pathology of glaucoma.” “The more advanced the disease, the more likely it is that the entire outflow system has pathology. That’s the reason MIGS do not work for all of our patients,” he says, adding that “trabeculectomy and tube shunt surgery are more prone to complications. Patients who are seeing fine are not always willing or excited to have a surgery where they might lose vision.” Exploring Hybrid Options Between MIGS and traditional surgery, there is MIBS (micro-invasive bleb surgery), a hybrid of the two. The procedure involves placing a microshunt into the eye, but instead of draining into a large reservoir for outflow, it feeds to a point just outside the eye and forms a diffuse bleb. “These tubes are much tinier than the tubes we use for traditional glaucoma drainage device placement and limit how quickly the fluid exits the eye. This helps reduce the chance that the pressure will drop too low,” Dr. Panarelli explains. Dr. Panarelli is senior author of a that compares the effectiveness and safety of microshunting versus trabeculectomy in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The two-year, prospective, randomized study was conducted at 29 sites. Eligible patients had mild-to-severe POAG inadequately controlled on maximum tolerated medical therapy. Although reductions in IOP and glaucoma medications over one year were observed in both groups, the trabeculectomy group had a lower mean IOP on fewer medications. Dr. Panarelli notes that “both procedures did very well and for surgeons who do not routinely perform trabeculectomy, the microshunt may provide solid IOP reproduction with more reproducible results.” Dr. Panarelli was also senior author on a retrospective study that evaluated the bleb morphology and outcomes of eyes implanted with the XEN® Gel Stent (Allergan). This MIBS device resulted in significant IOP lowering along with a low rate of postoperative bleb needling. “My patient population tends to have more advanced disease, so I do more traditional surgeries,” he says. “The key to these micro-invasive bleb surgeries is that we can probably use them earlier in the disease course before someone has lost a significant amount of vision.” Balancing Next-Generation and Current Approaches Also an innovator in robotic eye surgery, Dr. Panarelli hopes one day to deliver stem cell treatment to the trabecular meshwork and gene therapy beneath the retina, combining robotic assistance with intraoperative optical coherence tomography and other advanced imaging. Yet, he believes trainees should be taught traditional surgical methods such as trabeculectomy. “We need to keep innovating but stay proficient in the traditional surgeries. Glaucoma is not easily managed with a single treatment option,” Dr. Panarelli says. Disclosure: Dr. Panarelli is a consultant for Santen Inc., Allergan, New World Medical, Glaukos, CorneaGen, and Aerie Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Joseph F. Panarelli, MD, is an associate professor of ophthalmology and director of glaucoma services. His research focuses on evaluating and developing new surgical techniques, including micro-invasive glaucoma surgery devices, and comparing outcomes of glaucoma procedures in adult and pediatric populations. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Evolve Understanding of Keratoconus Keratoconus is one of the leading indications worldwide for corneal transplant. As the disease progresses, the cornea undergoes progressive thinning and begins to protrude, causing irregular astigmatism and gradual vision loss. People tend to develop keratoconus in their teens and 20s after the visual system has matured, says Ann Ostrovsky, MD , a clinical assistant professor of ophthalmology and director of the keratoconus program at NYU Langone Health. “Visual rehabilitation in patients with keratoconus should be possible in most cases since the visual potential of the eye is normal.” Dr. Ostrovsky and colleagues are advancing keratoconus treatment using topography and tomography imaging modalities to diagnose early-stage disease, as well as collagen cross-linking to halt progression. “Rigid contact lenses can improve vision, but do not prevent disease progression. Advanced disease can result in corneal scarring and frequently requires transplant for visual rehabilitation,” she says. , a professor of ophthalmology and pathology, is a cell biologist researching the pathogenesis of the disease . Together, Dr. Ostrovsky and Dr. Chakravarti are collaborating to understand the fundamental causes of keratoconus. “We have families where several members are affected,” Dr. Ostrovsky says. “Those with certain systemic conditions, such as Down syndrome, connective tissue disorders like Marfan syndrome, and collagen vascular diseases, have a higher prevalence. Additionally, severe ocular allergy, blepharitis, and forceful rubbing can aggravate this condition.” Investigating Genetic Components Dr. Chakravarti began researching keratoconus because of her interest in extracellular matrix (ECM)–related pathologies of the cornea . “Initially, we were just looking for ECM changes and their effects on cell-to-cell communication. But a strong genetic component in keratoconus is undeniable,” she says. “It is increasingly being appreciated that in a majority of patients, keratoconus is a polygenic, multifactorial disease. In that sense, it’s different from other diseases of the cornea that are caused by a handful of genes, like Fuchs dystrophy . Thus, studying keratoconus requires multiple approaches,” Dr. Chakravarti adds. “In a majority of patients, keratoconus is a polygenic, multifactorial disease. In that sense, it’s different from other diseases of the cornea that are caused by a handful of genes.” In a DNA sequencing study of 11 families affected by keratoconus , the researchers found potentially pathogenic variants in 8 different genes. Some were related to ECM integrity, which confirmed the investigators’ suspicion that ECM genes are important in keratoconus. Patients with keratoconus with no obvious family history are also being recruited at the for genomic studies. The researchers hope the pathogenic changes unraveled from discarded corneal tissues will provide clues about candidate genes in the isolated keratoconus patients. Focus on Oxidative Stress Dr. Chakravarti and colleagues have performed RNA sequencing proteomic studies of discarded corneas from patients with keratoconus, identifying potential biomarkers and decreased antioxidant responses. “We think that unresolved oxidative stress impacts structural proteins that protect the eye’s integrity,” Dr. Chakravarti says. She points to the potential diagnostic value of this discovery in keratoconus screening. “We realized that some of the oxidative stress byproducts show up in the tears; we are hoping to develop these as biomarkers or predictors of disease severity.” There is utility in understanding the genetics, she adds, not only for stratifying patient risk, but in clinical scenarios. “For example, people who have a genetic predisposition to keratoconus should carefully be counseled about LASIK surgery because their corneas may already have an underlying structural weakness.” Promoting Early Diagnosis Dr. Ostrovsky is focused on raising awareness among pediatricians and eye care specialists to promote early diagnosis of keratoconus, especially in susceptible populations. To further this effort, she helped to establish NYU Langone’s multidisciplinary Down Syndrome Program , which includes ophthalmology. recent article for the American Academy of Pediatrics , Dr. Ostrovsky outlines the hurdles in diagnosing disease in patients with Down syndrome. “These cases can be quite challenging because children with Down syndrome frequently don’t complain of vision loss,” she says, “and vision screening as well as obtaining quality tomography images are challenging due to patient cooperation.” “Basic topography equipment is widely available but interpreting the results can be complicated. In subtle cases, it may be helpful to have a consultation with a cornea specialist.” As for the future, Dr. Ostrovsky says there is still work to do regarding screening paradigms for eye care professionals. “Basic topography equipment is widely available but interpreting the results can be complicated. In subtle cases, it may be helpful to have a consultation with a cornea specialist. This is where biomarkers can also be helpful.” Ann Ostrovsky, MD, is a clinical assistant professor and director of the keratoconus program in the Department of Ophthalmology. She is also co-founder of the Down Syndrome Program, part of Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, and the associate clinical director for ambulatory care at NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. Her research interests include Sjogren’s syndrome, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and keratoconus. Chemoprevention: Best Practice Advice for Colorectal Neoplasia Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol . 2021 Jul 19;7:1327-1336. While there is growing interest among both patients and clinicians in chemoprevention for colorectal neoplasia, currently only aspirin or metformin should be considered, according to expert recommendations commissioned by the American Gastroenterological Association. “Aspirin has the best evidence for colorectal neoplasia, but it’s not for everyone,” says gastroenterologist Peter S. Liang, MD, MPH , first author on the article. “There is less evidence for metformin than for aspirin. But for people with type 2 diabetes, metformin should be considered.” Best Practice Advice With a slew of chemoprevention agents under various stages of investigation, Dr. Liang and colleagues, including , the Robert M. and Mary H. Glickman Professor of Medicine and Gastroenterology, sought to provide an updated review of well-studied medications that have been evaluated in clinical trials. “These represent some of the most updated and practical recommendations on chemoprevention for colorectal cancer,” Dr. Shaukat says. “These represent some of the most updated and practical recommendations on chemoprevention for colorectal cancer.” While they report strong evidence for the use of low-dose aspirin to reduce colorectal cancer incidence and mortality, it should only be considered for patients younger than 70 who are at risk of cardiovascular disease, and its benefit must be weighed against the risk of bleeding. “If someone shouldn’t be taking aspirin for heart disease prevention, it isn’t recommended that they take it for colorectal neoplasia prevention,” says Dr. Liang. In contrast, no clear chemopreventive benefit can be found for calcium, vitamin D, folic acid, or statins. Non-aspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are not recommended due to the high risk of adverse events. Navigating Patient Conversations Medications that lower cancer risk have great appeal from a patient perspective, Dr. Liang explains. But in some cases, patients may take medications for chemoprevention that have not been prescribed. As the new recommendations point out, this may be more harmful than helpful. “When physicians talk to their patients, it’s useful to ask if they are taking anything on their own,” says Dr. Liang. “We hope this can serve as a resource as they navigate those conversations.” Epidemiology, Gastroenterology Peter S. Liang, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine and population health. He is a health services researcher and epidemiologist with a primary focus in colorectal cancer prevention. Better Predicting Progression of Retinopathy of Prematurity The neovascularization caused by retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) can sometimes be halted with drugs or laser therapy, preventing the negative sequelae and late-stage disease that can require vitrectomy surgery. In premature infants, this surgery requires precision and specialized expertise. Vaidehi S. Dedania, MD , an assistant professor in the Department of Ophthalmology, treats both children and adults with retinal disease. However, it is her expertise in ROP surgery that attracts patients from across the New York region. “Kids are not little adults; their eyes haven’t yet developed completely, so special considerations need to be made for surgeries unique to this group,” says Dr. Dedania. “Some of these babies are under three pounds.” More than 40 percent of at-risk premature infants develop some stage of ROP , with approximately 12.5 percent developing severe ROP. “The median age for treatment-requiring ROP is 36 to 41 weeks,” says Dr. Dedania. “Now, we’re able to save more 22- and 23-weekers. The younger the baby, the greater the risk for developing ROP.” Imaging Infant Eyes Most ROP regresses without treatment, yet for those cases that do progress, it can be difficult to predict which babies will require treatment and when. Dr. Dedania is involved in several initiatives aimed at early prediction and diagnosis of advanced disease. “We need to find ways to better visualize intraoperatively for these babies—we’re still using all adult equipment.” “We have advanced technology—including OCT [optical coherence tomography] and OCT angiography—that we use in diabetic retinopathy and other retinal diseases,” she says. “While we have some of this available for use in children, we have to develop a better understanding of how this technology can offer predictive data in ROP.” In collaboration with colleagues in the Advanced Ophthalmic Imaging Laboratory , Dr. Dedania is participating in a single-center study to characterize and evaluate retinal pathologies using OCT “Additionally, we need to find ways to better visualize intraoperatively for these babies—we’re still using all adult equipment,” she says. The Role of Biomarkers Dr. Dedania says biomarkers with high sensitivity and specificity are needed to predict ROP. “We use biomarkers from tears and blood—less-invasive means—to obtain the metrics. But we really need to understand how to utilize this information,” she notes. To help address this question, Dr. Dedania and colleagues have implemented a vitreous biorepository at NYU Langone Health. “This is what we want to find out: are there vitreous biomarkers predictive of ROP and how do those correlate with biomarkers from blood or tears?” Improving Access to Care Lastly, Dr. Dedania believes telemedicine is an essential part of ensuring that all premature babies get screened for high-risk ROP. She participated in research that evaluated the feasibility of screening using a novel smartphone-based fundus photography device , and recently completed a study evaluating ROP screening patterns during the pandemic. “Especially in resource-poor communities, we need to ensure that all premature infants get proper ROP screening and have access to the interventions that can prevent blindness,” she said. Retinal Opthalmology, Vitreoretinal Surgery Vaidehi S. Dedania, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Ophthalmology. Her clinical and research focus is on developing new ways to predict, diagnose and treat diseases of the retina. In addition to individualized physical therapy programs at , we can bring our expertise directly to your entire company. Our licensed physical therapists are available to work on-site to provide in-depth rehabilitative services. We have served a long list of clients, ranging from utility companies to financial institutions. Our physical therapists have advanced degrees in orthopedics, ergonomics, and biomechanics and are specially trained to work with people who have all types of musculoskeletal problems. A therapist can be available full or part time, depending on your company’s needs. Our services range from staff education and awareness, implementation of injury prevention programs to the development of on-site treatment interventions. , we can also tailor our medical services to meet the needs of your corporation. Our board-certified medical advisor works with the company’s medical services and safety departments on an ongoing basis to provide the highest quality care for employees. Corporate on-site medical services may include training the medical staff in the evidence-based care of people with musculoskeletal disorders, setting up a triage care system, providing informational seminars to managers and employees, and providing independent medical evaluations. Through our Corporate Stress Management Program at , our team assesses stress levels among company employees through observation or standardized questionnaires. It can then make recommendations for improving overall work satisfaction and productivity. We can work with a company’s medical and human resources departments to identify teams of workers or those in a particular department who might benefit from stress management. We can then provide customized group seminars in the workplace. As part of the Corporate Stress Management Program, we offer the following services: education about the relationship between stress and physical, psychological, and behavioral problems self-assessment and monitoring techniques to enable workers to chart their progress relaxation techniques cognitive coping techniques problem-solving strategies Sessions may also include information about time management and social skills training, when appropriate. We encourage the development of programs that your organization can maintain, and our professional staff is prepared to train select personnel in various aspects of cognitive behavioral education, so that they can serve as resources within your organization. Leading the National Plan to Study Long-Term Impacts of COVID-19 RECOVER: Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery. The RECOVER study has four main questions: What does the spectrum of COVID-19 recovery look like? Who continues to have symptoms, or develops new symptoms, after acute infection? What causes post-acute sequelae? Does SARS-CoV-2 trigger biological changes that increase the risk of other conditions? ADAPTED FROM: Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery ( RECOVER RECOVER’s Clinical Science Core oversees all national cohort sites, including 15 adult, 8 pediatric, 2 maternal–fetal medicine, 7 autopsy, and 2 electric health record sites, plus more than 200 clinical sites. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health Funding to NYU Langone Health comprises $52 million for infrastructure and more than $400 million for allocating to sites. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health In February 2021, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) announced the Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery ( ) initiative to study the growing number of suspected, and in many cases potentially severe, post-acute sequelae of COVID (PASC). That May, NYU Langone was chosen as the project’s Clinical Science Core (CSC), responsible for leading and integrating the research activities of over 200 clinical sites and 40,000 study participants nationwide. The grant to NYU Langone represents one of the largest in NIH history. The CSC is helmed by co-principal investigators , the Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Professor of Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics; , director of the Center for Healthcare Innovation and professor of Population Health and Medicine; and Andrea B. Troxel, ScD , director of the Division of Biostatistics and professor of Population Health. In consultation with more than 100 researchers from 35 institutions, as well as patients with PASC, the CSC designed the study protocols for RECOVER’s five cohorts. By January 2022, enrollment was underway for the adult, maternal-fetal medicine, autopsy, and electronic health record cohorts, with the pediatric cohort expected to follow later in the year. “We’re asking basic questions about the pathophysiology, symptomology, and epidemiology of PASC. The answers will be crucial to solving a public health crisis affecting millions of people around the world.” Heart Failure, Cardiology Stuart D. Katz, MD, is the Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Professor of Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics and director of the Heart Health Failure Program. His research interests focus on developing new treatments to enhance exercise capacity and quality of life in heart failure patients. Leora Horwitz, MD, is director of the Division of Healthcare Delivery Science and the Center for Healthcare Innovation and Delivery Science, as well as a professor of population health and medicine. Her research interests center on healthcare redesign and health system transformation. Biostatistics, Population Health Andrea B. Troxel, ScD, is director of the Division of Biostatistics and a professor of population health. Her research aims to develop statistical methods for longitudinal data and the design and analysis of randomized clinical trials. Unmasking a Rare Complication of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Mark V. Sherrid, MD and Daniel G. Swistel, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In a study published in the Journal of the American Heart Association , researchers including cardiologist Mark V. Sherrid, MD describe a previously unreported syndrome of reversible cardiogenic shock and left ventricular (LV) ballooning in obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). A group of patients with HCM developed this syndrome, which superficially resembles an acute coronary syndrome associated with Takotsubo syndrome. “HCM is the great masquerader of cardiology,” Dr. Sherrid observes. “In cases of LV ballooning, obstructive HCM may be overlooked because of the dramatic presentation, because the septal thickening is mild, and because obstruction may be latent. Patients are misdiagnosed with Takotsubo syndrome and given treatments that may exacerbate their symptoms.” Affected patients had distinctive anatomical and physiologic characteristics that set them apart from Takotsubo patients. When their treatment was tailored to the underlying etiology, it was associated with favorable outcomes. “HCM is the great masquerader of cardiology. Patients are misdiagnosed with Takotsubo syndrome and given treatments that may exacerbate their symptoms.” A New Etiology for LV Ballooning The latest study built on earlier research by Dr. Sherrid, that examined electronic health records of 44 patients diagnosed with Takotsubo syndrome. In that study, imaging showed that 30 percent of this cohort had undiagnosed obstructive HCM, indicated by abnormalities of the ventricular septum and mitral valve with systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve (SAM) and high LV outflow gradients. Observations of this group suggested that acute LV outflow tract obstruction may cause ballooning. In the new study, Dr. Sherrid and his team analyzed 14 patients who were admitted with obstructive HCM and abrupt presentation of cardiogenic shock with LV ballooning. These patients received treatment addressing their HCM and outflow tract obstruction rather than that typically administered in Takotsubo cases. Shock management included intravenous phenylephrine, norepinephrine, beta blocker, and vasopressin. A subset of patients in refractory shock received urgent relief of obstruction by myectomy (n=5) or alcohol ablation (n=1). Despite the typically poor prognosis for cardiogenic shock, all patients survived, with full recovery of systolic function A Dangerous Masquerade In cardiogenic shock associated with LV ballooning in HCM, medical therapies commonly administered in Takotsubo syndrome—such as dobutamine, nitrates, or ACE inhibitors—are contraindicated. The efficacy of surgical intervention in cases of refractory cardiogenic shock also distinguishes the new syndrome from Takotsubo, in which ballooning occurs in the absence of underlying anatomical defects. “This clinical scenario is one of the few in HCM requiring emergent surgical intervention,” says Daniel G. Swistel, MD , a coauthor of the most recent study. “Decisions must be made in hours, and misdiagnosis of the true pathophysiology can result in fatal missteps.” This clinical scenario is one of the few in HCM requiring emergent surgical intervention.” The Importance of a Trained Eye Dr. Swistel notes that the clinical definition of HCM has recently expanded to include patients who have mild or normal LV thickness, yet have outflow tract obstruction at rest or after exercise responsible for typical heart failure symptoms. These patients have mitral leaflet elongation, papillary muscle abnormalities, and SAM, but their HCM may go undiagnosed due to the lack of obvious septal thickening. The finding that the condition can be associated with LV ballooning and cardiogenic shock “underscores the need for clinicians to familiarize themselves with the many anatomic variants found in HCM,” he observes. “This is a huge discovery on Dr. Sherrid’s part,” Dr. Swistel adds. “It’s a real leap forward in diagnosis.” Mark V. Sherrid, MD, is director of the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy program and an associate professor of medicine. His research centers on improving the diagnosis and treatment of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Daniel G. Swistel, MD, is surgical director of the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy program and a professor of cardiothoracic surgery. His research focuses on advancing surgical and other therapies for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and associated valvular disorders. The Future of the Total Artificial Heart Nader Moazami, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff The first successful human implantation of an artificial heart took place in 1982. Forty years later, just one such device is available in this country—the SynCardia Total Artificial Heart (TAH), approved in 2004 by the Food and Drug Administration as a bridge to transplantation. Although a lifesaver for some patients with irreversible biventricular failure, the device is only a stopgap. Researchers have long struggled to develop a TAH capable of permanently replacing a natural heart, and several groups now claim to be close to that goal. Whether they will succeed, however, remains an open question. , chief of the Division of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support, is an internationally recognized expert on circulatory assistive devices. We spoke with him about the state of the TAH—and its future. “As an aging population spurs growing rates of heart disease, the search has only become more urgent.” Overcoming Engineering Challenges A permanent artificial heart has been a holy grail of cardiac surgery since at least the 1960s. Why has it taken so long? The engineering challenges are mind-boggling, ranging from miniaturization to biocompatability to the need to prevent clotting and hemolysis. But as an aging population spurs growing rates of heart disease, the search has only become more urgent. The need for a permanent TAH is primarily driven by patients with end-stage biventricular heart failure who aren’t eligible for transplantation. But the same technology could benefit transplant-eligible patients as well, by providing better alternatives to the TAH available today. The SynCardia TAH has been implanted in about 1,700 patients since its introduction—just over 100 per year. What are its strengths and limitations? As a bridge to transplant, the SynCardia works reasonably well. But it’s based on technologies and concepts that were current in the 1980s—a pneumatic driver moving a diaphragm to create a pulsatile flow. It has a high rate of complications. It requires a complex anticoagulant regimen. It’s bulky and noisy. It’s not something that people can live with long term. For all these reasons, the device continues to have a limited application. Should next-generation TAHs adopt the continuous-flow model? There are some strong arguments for doing so. As we’ve seen with left ventricular assist devices (LVADs), continuous-flow (CF) rotary pumps provide increased mechanical reliability, smaller size, and better overall patient outcomes than volume-displacement pulsatile-flow technology. However, CF LVADs are also associated with complications such as arteriovenous malformations, bleeding, and hemmorhagic infarcts in some patients. This may reflect the fact that all our organs—the gut, liver, kidneys, brain— evolved to respond to pulsatile flow So in my opinion, the jury is still out on continuous-flow TAHs. Assessing Next-Generation TAH Candidates Several experimental TAHs are in the running to become the first permanent artificial heart. What should we know about them? The three candidates that have gotten the most attention are those developed by the Cleveland Clinic, Carmat, and BiVACOR. The Cleveland Clinic TAH was one of the earliest CF artificial hearts; it’s been around for about 10 years. I was involved in testing it preclinically before joining NYU Langone Health, but it has not yet reached the stage of human trials. BiVACOR is another CF TAH. Its sole moving part is a magnetically suspended spinning disk that acts as a centrifugal pump. The design is meant to enhance durability and reliability, as well as reduce its size. Another unique feature is that this TAH can be programmed to mimic pulsatile flow; it will be interesting to see if that modification improves patient outcomes. But this device, too, is still in the animal-testing stage. The Carmat TAH is a pulsatile flow device, which uses a hydraulic pump and pressure sensors to regulate blood flow according to patients’ physical activity. European regulators approved it in 2020 as a bridge to transplant, and it entered clinical trials in the United States in 2021. Again, it’s too soon to say whether one of these candidates is the front-runner. “For patients who are eligible for a transplant, it’s hard to imagine that any TAH could be a desirable substitute for a biological heart—at least for the foreseeable future. But for end-stage heart failure patients who aren’t candidates for a transplant, a permanent TAH could be a godsend.” A Solution to the Donor Heart Shortage? Some advocates suggest that permanent TAHs could provide an alternative to biological hearts, helping to relieve the persistent shortage of organs for transplantation. How realistic is that expectation? I’m skeptical. For patients who are eligible for a transplant, it’s hard to imagine that any TAH could be a desirable substitute for a biological heart—at least for the foreseeable future. As long as TAHs need an external drive line, they raise a variety of concerns: infection, difficulty taking a shower, the danger of accidentally tugging on the cable. If these devices can someday be internalized, that might change the equation. Until then, the most effective way to address the shortage of transplant organs will be to increase the supply of usable donor hearts. NYU Langone Health has been at the forefront of that effort, first by pioneering the use of hepatitis C-positive organs , and more recently by using donation after cardiac death organs. We’re also looking into xenotransplantation of genetically modified pig hearts, building on the Transplant Institute’s recent work with kidneys candidates for a transplant, a permanent TAH could be a godsend. When an appropriate device becomes available for human testing, we expect to be one of the leading centers investigating it clinically. Remote Monitoring Improves Outcomes in Diabetes During Pregnancy The retrospective study compared 173 patients monitored using paper-based blood glucose logs and 360 patients managed through a remote patient monitoring platform. The remote monitoring group had an increased rate of maternal glycemic control at the time of delivery and decreased rates of preeclampsia and neonatal hypoglycemia compared to the standard paper glucose log group.For data shown, p<0.001. ADAPTED FROM: Oral presentation at SMFM Annual Pregnancy Meeting; February 11, 2023. Diabetes is one of the most common medical complications in pregnancy with gestational diabetes impacting an estimated 2 to 10 percent of pregnancies in the United States. Poor glycemic control increases the risk of congenital malformation, pregnancy loss, and perinatal morbidity and mortality. Studies have demonstrated that optimal glycemic control during pregnancy can reduce these complications, but pregnant patients are faced with the challenges of attaining proficiency in diabetes surveillance and management in a very short time frame. In February 2020, the Division of Maternal–Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, in collaboration with NYU Langone’s Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) team, implemented the use of a remote patient monitoring (RPM) platform for at-home monitoring of patients’ glucose blood sugar levels. Eight months later, the division also launched the Postpartum Blood Pressure Remote Monitoring Program to conduct at-home blood pressure monitoring after delivery. In a retrospective study of 533 patients managed through the Diabetes in Pregnancy Program, director , associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology and a physician informaticist, and colleagues compared the outcomes of 173 patients previously monitored via paper-based blood glucose logs with those of 360 patients managed through RPM tools after their program’s launch. “Leveraging remote patient monitoring technology for management of diabetes in pregnancy reduces obstetric complications and improves neonatal outcomes.” The study found that during their pregnancies, those who monitored blood sugar levels through the RPM platform were significantly more likely to achieve glycemic control in the target range at the time of delivery, and achieved target range sooner than patients managed with the paper logs. The RPM patients had lower rates of preeclampsia, and their infants had lower rates of neonatal hypoglycemia within the first 24 hours of life. Based on the combined results, Dr. Heo and her colleagues concluded that RPM for managing diabetes during pregnancy is superior to the traditional paper-based approach. Maternal–Fetal Medicine and Physician Informatics Hye J. Heo, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology and a physician informaticist in Health Informatics with MCIT. She serves as the director of the Diabetes in Pregnancy and Maternal–Fetal Medicine Fellowship Program, both at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. She also serves as the System Physician Informaticist for the department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Hearing the Heartfelt Needs of ACHD Patients Dan G. Halpern, MD and Jodi L. Feinberg, NP. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff As more patients with adult congenital heart disease (ACHD) age into adulthood, care teams must address evolving needs for patient-centered support, says ACHD program director . Dr. Halpern and his colleagues in the Congenital Heart Program are partnering with young adult patients to understand what new services can best support their goals for independence in their careers, lifestyle regimens, and relationships as they manage chronic heart disease. “We have to learn how to address all of the clinical—and social—aspects of how to transition a kid into an adult. We are responsible for more than their cardiac care. These are young adults that strive to live well-rounded, fulfilling lives,” Dr. Halpern says. As a tertiary care center and first New York state-accredited comprehensive ACHD center, the Congenital Heart Program—which includes two ACHD transition clinics—is charged with offering a full range of clinical and social services for patients navigating challenging life transitions, including entering adulthood. “In their 20s, patients still come with their parents and a phone book of medical records. By 25 or 30, these young adults come by themselves and are learning to navigate their own life,” says Dr. Halpern. “It’s not just the heart that we take care of… There’s a lot of psychology around ACHD.” Hearing Unique Anxieties For young adults with ACHD, unique anxiety and stress can stem from activity limitations that may be unclear. “You have to be a bit parental, the adult in the room who can help adjust their expectations while letting them live their lives,” Dr. Halpern says. The NYU Langone Health program includes an ACHD social worker to help address concerns of patients caught between pediatric and adult worlds. “It’s not just the heart that we take care of. Just this morning, one of my patients asked me for a hug in the hospital. There’s a lot of psychology around ACHD.” Recently, COVID-19 has revealed how external factors fuel unique concerns for ACHD patients. In a survey of 100 adults with ACHD, Dr. Halpern and Jodi L. Feinberg, NP , “found an immense amount of anxiety, depression and fear of COVID-19.” Their concerns weighed heavily despite the fact that NYU Langone Health researchers have helped determine COVID-19 mortality in ACHD patients is commensurate with the general population. “Something jumped here and it spurred us. We redesigned the clinic flow to take care of oxygen saturations, medications, and mental health through carefully scheduled video visits,” says Dr. Halpern. Letting Patients Reveal Their Needs Dr. Halpern and colleagues, including , have been holding virtual information sessions where ACHD patients of all ages are invited to learn and share about care-related topics. Some of the first sessions focused on COVID-19-related anxiety, exercise regimens, healthy diets, and scars. Dr. Halpern says they are surfacing unexpected insights about the needs of young adult patients. “The diet one, although nicely done, did not generate much interest,” Dr. Halpern laughs. “Then, everyone was so enthusiastic about the one on scars. They were advising each other about how to tell a new significant other about a sternotomy scar. That seemed to interest them more than the surgery itself.” Based on this feedback, the ACHD team built a scar initiative with dermatology. Three months after an ACHD surgery, patients are now referred for specialty treatment to minimize scarring. Creating Peer Community Dr. Halpern’s team is considering strategies for offering peer-to-peer matching for ACHD patients. The goal is to introduce patients with a specific congenital heart defect—tetralogy of Fallot or single ventricle with Fontan palliation, for example—to each another. “A lot of patients live in silo. It’s unbelievable how so many patients are eager to speak to people with the same condition.” The idea evolved out of NYU Langone Health’s collaboration with the Adult Congenital Heart Association. “That group includes MDs and volunteers who themselves have CHD,” Dr. Halpern says. Looking forward, Dr. Halpern envisions the demand for comprehensive support services within the ACHD community—and how innovative programs can offer those services—will continue to take new directions. “ACHD patients are perhaps among the most clinically challenging patients that require life-long follow up. We are committed to accompanying them during their journey,” Dr. Halpern says. Surgical Reconstruction Resolves Cloaca-Like Deformity After Obstetric Trauma Multidisciplinary pelvic floor expertise guides successful restoration of rectal-vaginal structures. Laparoscopic Fibroid Removal in a Patient with Müllerian Agenesis A complex case involving atypical uterine presentation reveals the aggressive nature and symptomatology of leiomyomas. Surging Interest in Specialized Fertility Care Providers advocate that rising demand warrants more individualized counseling and lowering barriers to care. Oocyte Cryopreservation Outperforms IVF for Delayed Childbearing Most women younger than 38 when their eggs were frozen, or who thawed at least 20 eggs, achieved live births. Testing Pulsed Field Ablation for Treating Atrial Fibrillation Catheter ablation has long been recognized as an effective treatment for a wide variety of cardiac arrhythmias, but the therapy runs a risk of damage to surrounding tissues. Pulsed field ablation (PFA) is emerging as a novel, non-thermal energy source that may offer a safer alternative to conventional catheter ablation technologies. PFA delivers ultrashort, high-voltage pulses to create lesions on targeted tissue. This mechanism is also known as electroporation because it causes temporary pore-like openings in cell walls, leading to death by apoptosis. The frequency of the pulses can be adjusted to target specific proteins within cell membrane, leaving other types of tissue unharmed. “PFA offers the hope for an energy source that is instantaneous, efficacious, and specific to the heart.” “With traditional energy sources, we spend much of our time trying to avoid collateral damage to the nerves, blood vessels, lungs, or esophagus,” says . “PFA offers the hope for an energy source that is instantaneous, efficacious, and specific to the heart.” Investigating PFA for Atrial Fibrillation Previously used in oncology to destroy specific types of tumors or to increase tumor permeability to chemotherapy drugs, PFA has recently been adapted for catheter ablation by a number of manufacturers. European regulators approved the first such device in January 2021, but the technology remains investigational in the U.S. NYU Langone is currently conducting clinical trials of three different PFA cardiac ablation devices in patients with atrial fibrillation. “There are many ways to deliver this energy,” Dr. Chinitz explains. “We’re trying to find out the best way to do it.” Numerous questions about the new technology remain, including how durable are the lesions that PFA produces, the safety compared with conventional counterparts, and which of the available catheters is optimal for a given application, such as paroxysmal versus persistent atrial fibrillation. Across the three trials testing devices developed by Medtronic, Farapulse, and Biosense Webster, primary outcomes include primary adverse events such as atrial-esophageal fistula and cardiac tamponade/perforation within 7 days, and freedom from documented atrial arrhythmia, atrial tachycardia, or atrial flutter for up to one year. Secondary outcomes include the number of patients who achieve acute procedural success, defined as confirmation of entrance block in targeted atrial pulmonary veins after adenosine/isoproterenol challenge, and change in quality of life after ablation. Ripple Effect Across Cardiac Ablation If the early results from the PFA trials hold up, Dr. Chinitz expects the Heart Rhythm Center will be among the first to adopt the devices. NYU Langone is one of the world’s largest centers for the treatment of complex arrhythmias and a pioneer in transformative treatments. “It’s still too soon to know whether this technology will live up to those expectations. If it does, it’s likely to change the field of catheter ablation dramatically.” “Many feel that PFA will replace radiofrequency and cryoablation as the premier energy source for cardiac ablation,” Dr. Chinitz notes. Eventually, it could be adapted beyond atrial fibrillation to other arrhythmias, including those involving the ventricles. “It’s still too soon to know whether this technology will live up to those expectations. If it does, it’s likely to change the field of catheter ablation dramatically,” Dr. Chinitz says. Affirming All Gender Identities Through Pregnancy Specializing in obstetric care for transgender patients, , adds uncommon expertise to NYU Langone Health’s . Here, he discusses best practices for inclusive care, the need for education and studies that capture the diverse concerns of patients, and initiatives he and his team are pursuing to reduce the inequities experienced by the transgender and gender-diverse community. Providing Affirming Care for All Transgender, nonbinary, and gender-expansive people often face discrimination in healthcare settings. What are some important considerations for obstetric care? The language and culture around pregnancy is highly gendered, and obstetric care largely caters to cisgender women. Fortunately, there has been growing awareness about the importance of providing care for all people. That means recognizing that people with diverse gender identities have pregnancies and give birth. “Our goal is to create a system that is affirming of all gender identities so that people feel comfortable coming here for care.” Our goal is to create a system that is affirming of all gender identities so that people feel comfortable coming here for care. We want to affirm people’s identities during the entire pregnancy—from prenatal care, to delivery, to postpartum. What elements are important when planning for pregnancy? Some people with reproductive potential are taking testosterone. This important medication can have a remarkably positive impact on a person’s quality of life. Unfortunately, testosterone cannot be used during pregnancy. Patients should stop taking testosterone before pregnancy or as soon as they find out they are pregnant. While the idea of stopping hormone therapy and experiencing pregnancy with all its gendered connotations can be difficult, we help our patients embrace pregnancy while affirming their unique identities. Most of the care during pregnancy for transgender and gender-expansive patients is the same as for cisgender patients. Some of the unique elements of care include creating a dialog around talking about pregnancy that affirms someone’s unique identity, screening for depression, building an individualized birth plan, and ensuring a smooth transition to a team of affirming gynecologists and primary care doctors once pregnancy is over. New Frontiers in Medical Education You’ve been involved in several educational initiatives designed to improve knowledge on the provision of health services to transgender and gender-expansive patients. How do you see education and training advancing? Educating future physicians and trainees is key to expanding access to inclusive obstetric care. As public awareness increases and more programs prioritize education around LGBTIA+ care, I hope that transgender and gender-expansive people will find affirming doctors and feel comfortable seeking care. “Educating future physicians and trainees is key to expanding access to inclusive obstetric care.” I recently completed my term on the Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the Workforce committee. We published a statement that affirmed the society’s commitment to excellence in obstetric care, research, and education for people with diverse sexual and gender identities. In collaboration with the society, I’m currently working on a follow-up publication. I’m hopeful that this paper will provide more practical guidance on how clinicians can employ gender-inclusive practices in obstetrics and maternal–fetal medicine. Some people have concerns about erasing women from pregnancy. To be clear, I want to advocate for an inclusive approach that ensures that all people—cisgender women, transgender men, and everyone with birthing potential—are included. The expansion of inclusive practices does not take away from the need to address sexism and other challenges that cisgender women face. We need to remember that people with diverse gender identities and birthing potential face sexism, too. Pursuing Inclusive Research What current issues in research are you focused on addressing? People with diverse gender identities have been historically excluded from research. While professional societies recommend the use of inclusive language in research, fewer than half of obstetrics and gynecology journals require gender-inclusive research practices in their author submission guidelines. There is also a lack of data about gender-inclusive research practices in obstetrics and gynecology. I’m very interested in how we can employ more inclusive research practices and promote their use. Genetic Testing in Gynecologic Cancer: Lowering the Systemic Barriers to Access As the availability of next-generation sequencing (NGS) becomes increasingly critical to the treatment of gynecologic cancers, persistent underutilization and inequitable access to genetic testing remain significant barriers to care for many patient populations. , director of gynecologic oncology research and medical director of the Clinical Trials Office , discusses the specific challenges of universal access to genetic testing and tumor sequencing in these cancers, and how these barriers can be overcome to increase access to the latest clinical trials and treatment options. Genetic Insights Inform New Guidelines Dr. Pothuri, your research focuses on NGS in endometrial cancer. How common is the use of this tool as a standard of care? Dr. Pothuri: Here at NYU Langone, we now perform NGS on all patients with endometrial cancer right at the time of diagnosis. The entire field is moving in this direction, and we now recognize four distinct molecular subtypes, correlated with prognosis. In fact, the information from NGS has become so important that it will change the staging of some endometrial cancers, and it may also affect treatment. For instance, a stage 1A uterine serous cancer with p53 alteration will be a stage 2 in the soon-to-be adopted Federation in Gynecology and Oncology (FIGO) staging system. Escalating or De-Escalating Care How is NGS helping to inform treatment in endometrial cancer? We know from my own research that there is a high rate of pathogenic germline variant detection in those patients who undergo NGS. We have marker-directed immunotherapy options to offer these patients, so undergoing tumor sequencing becomes critical to matching the right patients with appropriate therapies. “This is a culmination of all of my population health research—we need to do a better job with both preventing and stratifying gynecologic cancers so we can reduce its burden and save lives.” Conversely, under the new staging classification, these insights can actually help us to de-escalate treatment in patients considered low-risk, such as those with POLE -mutated cancers. In Europe, they have already adjusted ESGO/ESTRO/ESP guidelines so that adjuvant treatment is no longer recommended in some patients with stage 1 or 2 cancers that are completely resected. Disparities Limit Universal Testing Despite the recognized benefits of genetic testing, there’s evidence that it’s underutilized. Why? It’s true that even before diagnosis, patients at risk for hereditary cancers are not being referred appropriately for genetic testing. We reported a stark example of this, where the vast majority of patients who met National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) criteria for BRCA only underwent testing after diagnosis of a -related cancer . That is a tremendous missed opportunity when we have effective preventive strategies to offer these patients. As gynecologic oncologists, we see patients once they’re already diagnosed, so education is needed at the primary care, internist, or obstetrician and gynecologist level to flag those patients whose family history meets criteria for genetic testing referral. “The vast majority of patients who met NCCN criteria for genetic testing only underwent testing after diagnosis of a -related cancer. That is a tremendous missed opportunity.” Notably, we also found that compared to those with private health insurance, publicly insured or uninsured patients were three times more likely to undergo testing after cancer was already diagnosed. We reported significant racial/ethnic inequity in testing referral in our endometrial cancer study as well. These findings point to the broad issue of access and implicit bias affecting cancer treatment and participation in clinical trials. Ensuring Access to the Best Treatments What are the repercussions of access inequality when it comes to clinical trials? There’s the obvious negative impact on outcomes for patients who could benefit from a trial but aren’t referred. Importantly, we now have evidence that this dynamic is likely also impacting trial results. For example, we examined data from patients with advanced or recurrent uterine serous carcinomas who received NGS testing and found that Black patients comprised nearly half of this population . Furthermore, 38 percent of Black patients had cancer with CCNE1 amplification, which is associated with poorer outcomes, while no White patients had this alteration. If a clinical trial of a therapy targeting amplification under-enrolls Black patients, not only will it result in a negative trial, it will miss the opportunity to treat those patients most likely to be affected by the condition—those who experience worse outcomes and need the treatment. You also serve as director for diversity and health equity in clinical trials for the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) Foundation. Going forward, what changes can help ensure needed diversity in this space? Removing implicit bias from the clinical trial selection process can help diversify enrollment. In our research, when a pre-screener examined medical charts without seeing patients, we increased enrollment in a trial by threefold in six months; patients enrolled before implementation of pre-screening were all non-Hispanic White, while patients enrolled subsequently were either non-Hispanic Black or Hispanic White. We also need to require mandatory implicit bias, anti-racism, and cultural humility training for all involved in clinical research. Applying ASCO-ACCC’s Just ASK training will be important, as we know that over two-thirds of patients of diverse populations are willing to go on trials when asked. It’s also critical we address barriers to trial participation, including transportation, loss of wages, and childcare, and ensure protocols are not overly restrictive. For genetic testing, as the cost comes down, we need universal testing. We are embarking on a study with three locations in Brooklyn to offer genetic testing to Hispanic, Afro-Caribbean, and Chinese patients to understand patient uptake and provider feasibility of offering universal testing. We are very excited to activate this study. This is a culmination of all my population health research—we need to do a better job with both preventing and stratifying gynecologic cancers so we can reduce their burden and save lives. Bhavana Pothuri, MD, is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology, director of gynecologic oncology research, and medical director of the Clinical Trials Office at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research and clinical interests include next-generation tumor sequencing and precision medicine for ovarian and endometrial cancers. Advancing the Profession of Interventional Cardiology The Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions president discusses helping shape the subspecialty’s future. Psilocybin and Psychotherapy May Dramatically Reduce Alcohol Consumption Psychogenic Nonepileptic Seizures: Exploring Unmet Needs A specialist in functional neurological disorders calls for greater attention to little-understood condition. Defining Mental Health Strategies for Responding to COVID-19 As the pandemic entered its second year, NYU Langone Health researchers led in outlining responses to reduce psychiatric harms. Untangling Schizophrenia’s Ties to COVID-19 Mortality Unsettling finding associate the mental illness with nearly three times higher risk of death. More Online Game Playing Fuels Call for Addiction Awareness Internet games like Call of Duty and Pokémon are a massive global business, generating an estimated total revenue of $196 billion in 2022 . The continued growth of online gaming has revealed a considerable downside, however, with psychiatrists seeing an influx of patients presenting with symptoms of gaming addiction. While the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , released in 2013, listed “internet gaming disorder,” it did so not as a formal disorder but as a condition that could be considered for official inclusion pending more clinical research and experience. In the decade since, interest in identifying diagnostic and treatment strategies has risen significantly. Anil Thomas, MD , clinical associate professor of psychiatry and director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Addiction Psychiatry Fellowship , discusses the emerging diagnosis of internet gaming disorder, growing clinical interest, and the opportunity to advance research and awareness. Drivers of Addiction How big of a problem is gaming addiction? Dr. Thomas: It is a growing problem. Multiple factors have contributed to a rapid increase in recent years. Cell phones have made it possible to take gaming anywhere. Additionally, with people sheltered in their homes during COVID-19, the pandemic steepened that trajectory. In terms of when gaming should be considered a problem, it is when an individual is neglecting other components of life, like taking care of themselves and their daily activities. Playing all night, neglecting social interactions, not maintaining friendships or contacting family, having gaming interfere with other responsibilities like work—these are all suggestive of a problem. “All patients that come in with any sort of distress, whether it’s anxiety, depression, or any substance use issues, should be screened for a gaming disorder—it’s on the rise. That awareness is so important.” On a neurological level, while there are few studies, it holds true that gaming addiction follows the same pathways in the brain as alcohol, opiate use, or any behavior that is driven by a similar reward system. Who seems to be more susceptible to this kind of addiction? In general, we’re seeing more male than female patients: it’s about 56 to 44 percent. And there is a large cohort of gamers that are adolescents. Their executive function, their prefrontal cortexes, have not developed yet like an adult’s. So they may not be able to make the decision, “Hey, this is too much for me, let me back away from it or temper it.” At the same time, younger gamers might not have access to the money needed to continue playing. So there is a balance between older and younger players with addiction problems. Screening Strategies What happens when someone with symptoms of gaming addiction goes to a psychiatrist at NYU Langone? We have addiction psychiatrists who assess for gaming disorders and manage that if it arises. It is a simple question: Do you play video games? And if the answer is yes, then you tease it out and see if they are neglecting other parts of their life. Patients are usually at an extreme point in their addiction before they seek help. There is that denial because it looks so benign until you’ve lost hours and hours of your life and potentially your job or social connections. A proper assessment is vital. Symptoms could point to another comorbid condition: Do they have an anxiety issue or depressive issue that they’re compensating for with the gaming? In that sense, treating the underlying psychiatric diagnosis with say, an anxiolytic or antidepressant, can improve the gaming addiction. But the thing that really helps is cognitive behavioral therapy. It’s not abstinence, but rather a harm reduction strategy so that the individual can engage in other activities and regain a healthy balance. What advice do you have for other clinicians? I think all clinicians—especially outpatient clinicians, family practice physicians, psychiatrists, internists—when they see a new patient and are screening for some sort of addiction, they should drop a question about internet gaming just to see if this is another issue. All patients that come in with any sort of distress, whether it’s anxiety, depression, or any substance use issues, should be screened for a gaming disorder—it’s on the rise. That awareness is so important. Increasingly Addictive Games To what extent are game developers contributing to the problem by making their games more addictive? Actively. They have an incentive to get players to spend money and be more engaged. They don’t want to make it too hard to earn in-game rewards. At the same time, they don’t want to make it too boring so that players switch to another game. They want to hit that sweet spot that convinces the gamer to continue to play. That’s called the “flow,” which is the zone where the challenge matches the player’s skill level. Game developers are actively monitoring where that “flow” is so they can pull in gamers and keep them there—and then playing for 5 hours, 10 hours will feel like the blink of an eye, possibly at the expense of sleep, food, and everything else. How can psychiatrists be more actively involved in promoting awareness around the hazards of gaming addiction? I believe that, like all diseases and aliments, we need to be aware and acknowledge that it exists. We need to educate parents and colleagues on signs of unhealthy gaming behavior, and finally screen for gaming disorder if there are indications. Anil Thomas, MD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Psychiatry, director of the Addiction Psychiatry Fellowship, and associate director and senior psychiatrist in the Addictions Division at NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry Podcast NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry is a unique podcast by clinicians, for clinicians, that connects cutting-edge discoveries with practical takeaways that can help you improve your patients’ care today. In each episode, host , a clinical assistant professor and the coordinator of digital mental health, outcomes, and wellness in the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, and a nationally recognized specialist in mental health illnesses including obsessive-compulsive disorder and anxiety, explores a unique topic with a guest expert who is pursuing the most critical and compelling questions at the cutting-edges of their research area. “It’s an honor to… help to communicate the kinds of meaningful insights we can all use in this fast-moving profession.” Insights on Psychiatry is part a look at the future of where psychiatry is headed and part a practical guide to improving the treatment we provide today,” says Dr. Gallagher. “It’s an honor to converse with such fascinating group of peers about their research and to help to communicate the kinds of meaningful insights we can all use in this fast-moving profession.” Welcome from Our Leadership “It is with great pleasure that we welcome into our educational programming. This series hosted by Dr. Thea Gallagher, one of our communication leaders, features clinical thought leaders from across our department discussing their passionate work with patients and in their specific area of research. We view these discussions as a way of your being able to meet and greet our experts over a virtual cup of coffee.  We know you will find them to be lively, informative and enriching.” , Peter H. Schub Professor and Chair, and Lenard A. Adler, MD , Vice Chair for Education, Department of Psychiatry Listen Now Listen on Apple Podcasts Listen on Spotify Listen on Google Podcasts Listen on Overcast Listen on Amazon Music Recent Episodes SEASON 2, EPISODE 12: APRIL 15, 2024 For the final episode of Season 2, we’re joined by Dr. Samuele Cortese , Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at the University of Southampton (UK) and Adjunct Full Professor at NYU Langone. Together we explore the intersection of pediatric ADHD and precision psychiatry, including the disorder’s genetic underpinnings and evolving treatment options. 00:00 Introduction 00:54 Dr. Cortese’s Research Journey 02:11 Global Perspectives and Challenges in ADHD Treatment 03:51 Advances in ADHD Diagnosis and Treatment 06:41 Role of Genetics in ADHD 09:33 Precision Treatment and Stratification 12:17 Treatment Adherence and Shared Decision-Making 23:55 Connection Between ADHD and Obesity 28:39 Non-Stimulant Alternatives and Future Directions in ADHD Treatment 32:16 Non-Pharmacological Treatments 37:28 Advice for Clinicians and Closing Thoughts Read full transcript SEASON 2, EPISODE 11: APRIL 09, 2024 Dr. Timothy Wilens is a Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital. His research interest include the relationship between ADHD, bipolar disorder, and substance use disorders; ADHD pharmacotherapy; and stimulant medication misuse. On this episode, Dr. Wilens discusses the importance of early diagnosis and intervention in ADHD, as well as its lifelong implications. He takes us through the evolution of ADHD treatment, from behavioral therapies to modern pharmacological interventions, including stimulant and non-stimulant medications, and the application of digital therapeutics. The conversation also touches on the stigma surrounding ADHD, the role of precision medicine, and the future of ADHD research. 02:50 Evolution of ADHD Treatment 04:43 Stigma and Misconceptions 12:18 Importance of Early Intervention 15:02 ADHD Symptoms and Treatment Approaches 30:02 Addressing Concerns About Stimulant Medications 35:50 Navigating the Complexities of ADHD Medication 41:22 Future of ADHD Research and Treatment 43:20 Conclusion SEASON 2, EPISODE 10: APRIL 02, 2024 Dr. Ira Glick is Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University Medical Center, where he has served as director of the Schizophrenia Research Clinic. On this episode, he discusses his research journey, which began in the 1960s and followed a shift from psychoanalysis to biological psychiatry. He addresses the broken social safety net for schizophrenia patients, including the controversial topic of treating some patients against their will, as well as the challenges of medication adherence, and the stigma surrounding severe mental illness. 00:49 Evolution of Schizophrenia Treatment 04:34 Science Behind Schizophrenia Medications 07:39 Addressing the Public Health Challenges of Schizophrenia 11:15 Stigma and Misunderstanding of Severe Mental Illness 21:44 Innovative Treatment Approaches and the Future of Schizophrenia Care 31:36 Importance of Public Health Interventions and Political Will 35:45 Closing Remarks and Future Directions SEASON 2, EPISODE 9: MARCH 26, 2024 Dr. Christin Drake is Clinical Associate Professor and Vice Chair of Diversity and Equity in the Department of Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. On this episode, Dr. Drake discusses ongoing efforts to improve mental health equity, including by improving psychiatric services for underserved groups, gathering better data, and boosting diversity among health care providers. She also discusses the importance of integrating mental health care into perinatal services and challenges the conventional wisdom about stigma toward mental health care in the Black community. 00:55 Dr. Drake’s Vision for Equity in Mental Health Care 03:46 Addressing Racial Inequities in Psychiatry: A Critical Conversation 04:45 The Importance of Representation and Mentorship in Psychiatry 10:32 Building Foundations for Health Equity: Data and Systemic Change 22:16 Integrating Psychiatric Care into Perinatal Health 33:31 Rethinking Mental Health Stigma in the Black Community 38:08 Future Projects and Closing Thoughts See full transcript SEASON 2, EPISODE 8: MARCH 19, 2024 Dr. John Krystal is Chair of Psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine. He is best known for leading the discovery of the rapid antidepressant effects of ketamine, which paved the way for the first major new antidepressant drug in decades. Here, Dr. Krystal talks about what we’ve learned in the five years since esketamine nasal spray was approved by the FDA, including efforts to predict treatment response, dosage and frequency, safety, and long-term impact. He also discusses advances in our understanding of alcohol use disorder and weighs in on the search for psychiatric biomarkers. 01:01 Dr. Krystal’s Research Journey 03:32 What We’ve Learned Since Esketamine’s FDA Approval 05:59 Avoiding Misuse 08:11 Optimizing Dosage 16:25 Predicting Treatment Outcomes 24:17 Ketamine vs. Psychedelics 25:48 Advances in the Treatment of Alcohol Use Disorder 32:33 Precision Psychiatry and Personalized Treatment Approaches 39:49 Psychiatric Biomarkers 41:03 The Future of Psychiatric Research and Treatment SEASON 2, EPISODE 7: MARCH 12, 2024 Dr. Robert Findling is Chair of the Department of Psychiatry at the Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine. Here he discusses recent advances in pediatric mental health, including his own research on aggression and schizophrenia in young people. Dr. Findling also shares his thoughts on the crisis of teen suicide, the lingering impact of COVID-19 on children’s mental health, and the need for early and collaborative interventions. 00:46 Clinical and Research Journey 02:56 Aggression with impulsivity and reactivity (AIR) 06:48 Precision Pediatric Psychiatry 15:34 Schizophrenia 20:31 What Kids Need to Thrive 23:10 Teen Suicide 25:09 Role of Schools and Primary Care 30:58 Loneliness Epidemic Among Children 32:32 Improving Access to Pediatric Mental Health Care 40:00 Bipolar Disorder 43:24 Future Research and Hope for Young Patients 45:11 Conclusion: Importance of Early Intervention SEASON 2, EPISODE 6: MARCH 05, 2024 Dr. Charles Nemeroff is Chair of the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the University of Texas-Austin’s Dell Medical School. He is also co-director of the Center for Psychedelic Research and Therapy, and director of the Institute for Early Life Adversity Research. His research is focused on the pathophysiology of mood and anxiety disorders with a focus on the role of child abuse and neglect as a major risk factor. 00:52 Dr. Nemeroff’s Research Journey 01:55 Childhood Maltreatment as Risk Factor 04:53 Advances and Challenges in Precision Psychiatry 07:33 Psychedelic Medicine (incl. blinding issues and potential adverse events) 20:50 How Psychedelics Disrupt the “Circle of Hell” 30:00 Psilocybin as Potential Treatment for Anorexia Nervosa 38:32 Screening for Childhood Maltreatment 41:30 Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) 44:14 Focused Ultrasound 46:32 Prescribing MAOIs 49:34 Conclusion Read full transcript. SEASON 2, EPISODE 5: FEBRUARY 27, 2024 Empathy (with Helen Riess, MD) Dr. Helen Riess is Associate Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and Director of Empathy Research and Training in the Psychotherapy Research Group at Massachusetts General Hospital. She is also Founder and Chief Executive Officer at Empathetics , a company that provides science-based empathy and interpersonal skills training for healthcare professionals. Her research focuses on improving empathy and relational skills in physicians. 01:14 Defining Empathy 03:38 Empathy and Burnout 05:00 Care for the Caregiver 07:52 Exquisite Empathy and Burnout 09:18 Building Empathy and Avoiding Overburden 10:45 Developing Boundaries in Clinical Practice 11:45 Training and Teaching Empathy 13:42 Model for Recognizing Emotion in Others 15:11 Becoming Emotion Detectives 19:31 Leadership’s Role in Creating Supportive Workplaces 23:22 Benefits of Empathy Training 29:07 Technology and Empathy Training 34:18 Research on MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy 37:43 Building Empathy and Compassion 40:07 Taking Small Steps Towards Empathy 42:32 Resources for Building Empathy 43:28 Future of Empathy Training The Empathy Effect (Dr. Riess’s book) The Power of Empathy (TEDx Talk) SEASON 2, EPISODE 4: FEBRUARY 20, 2024 Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (with Christopher Pittenger, MD, PhD) Dr. Christopher Pittenger is a Professor of Psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine and Director of the Yale OCD Research Clinic . In this episode, he discusses the neurobiology, symptomology, and treatment of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD), including potential new treatments such as psychedelics, neurofeedback, glutamate modulators, and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). 00:41 Why is OCD Underdiagnosed? 02:19 Impact of OCD on Individuals 03:40 Taboo Nature of OCD Thoughts 06:10 Biomarkers 08:06 Neurobiology 14:20 Serotonin 16:48 Heterogeneity of OCD 24:00 Glutamate Modulators 29:33 Ketamine 33:13 Psilocybin 38:23 Neurofeedback 44:01 Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) 47:22 Relationship Between Depression and OCD 50:24 Future of OCD Treatment SEASON 2, EPISODE 3: FEBRUARY 13, 2024 Meditation (with Richard Davidson, PhD) Dr. Richard Davidson is the William James and Vilas Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and Founder & Director of the Center for Healthy Minds .  In this episode, he discusses the current state of research on mindfulness and meditation as mental health interventions. 02:15 Focus areas in current research 04:37 Well-being as a universal intervention 06:21 Beyond mindfulness: other forms of meditation 07:24 Four pillars of well-being: awareness, connection, insight, and purpose 13:04 Healthy Minds Program and the impact of short daily meditation practices 17:05 Comparison of Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) and the Healthy Minds Program, focusing on accessibility and time commitment 20:55 The potential for structural changes in the brain with meditation 26:24 Integrating mindfulness and meditation into clinical practice 28:06 Micro-supports for everyday well-being 33:27 Mindfulness and social connection 35:06 Future research directions, including the concept of a flourishing city SEASON 2, EPISODE 2: FEBRUARY 06, 2024 Dr. Ronald Kessler is the McNeil Family Professor of Health Care Policy at Harvard Medical School. His groundbreaking work on the social determinants of mental health, studied from an epidemiological perspective, has made him the most widely cited psychiatric researcher in the world.  In this wide-ranging conversation, he talks about precision psychiatry’s enormous potential and incremental development, delving into his own efforts to better identify at-risk patients and predict treatment efficacy. Dr. Kessler stresses the need for better data and bigger studies, and envisions a future of AI-supported clinicians. 00:53 Dr. Kessler’s Journey to Precision Psychiatry 02:45 The Importance of Data 04:14 Risk Factors and Treatment Optimization 10:42 Successes and Challenges 13:23 The Importance of Baseline Information 23:46 Machine Learning in Veterans Health 24:27 Determining Suicide Risk 25:35 Interventions and Cost-Effectiveness 26:16 Esketamine Trials and Response Prediction 27:07 Risk Models and Comparative Risk Models 27:15 Insomnia Treatment in Military Personnel 29:36 Cost-Benefit Analyses 35:45 AI in Medicine and Patient Response 42:21 Future of Precision Psychiatry 45:51 Closing Remarks SEASON 2, EPISODE 1: JANUARY 30, 2024 Dr. Petros Levounis is President of the American Psychiatric Association and a leader in addiction research. He joins host Thea Gallagher, PsyD, to talk about the latest in addiction medicine, the state of the opioid crisis, the growing problem of technology addiction, and the promise and risks of psychedelic medicine. He also shares his hopes for the future of psychiatry, including better integration of diagnoses, treatments, and outcomes for people with mental health disorders. 00:00 Introduction to NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry 00:16 Dr. Levounis’s role and priorities as APA president 00:46 The State of Addiction Medicine 02:12 Neurobiology of Addiction 03:37 Interplay Between Mental Health and Addiction 06:03 Potential and Challenges of Psychedelic Medicine 08:37 Cannabis and Tech Addictions 10:11 Addressing the Opioid Crisis: Strategies and Solutions 15:28 Addressing Technological Addictions 28:55 The Future of Psychiatry: Goals and Aspirations 35:47 Conclusion and Final Thoughts Hox Genes Prove Crucial for Bone Maintenance & Repair Skeletal maintenance and healing rely heavily on stem cells to replace tissue lost to injury, disease, or wear and tear. Preserving this readiness requires skeletal stem cells to be continually renewed by cell division and kept in an immature, uncommitted state, the underlying mechanisms of which remain poorly understood. A subsequent differentiation process can then yield the bone tissue’s major cellular lineages. Skeletal stem cells become depleted with age, however, resulting in weaker bones that are more susceptible to fracture and less adept at efficient repair and regeneration . If directed to remain in greater numbers, conversely, they might provide a rich source of replacements for lost cells or a promising therapeutic target for rejuvenating aging bones. “Our data revealed a previously unknown function for Hox genes as essential location-specific regulators of stem cell maturity in adulthood, with short-term local increases in their expression able to drive healing.” Philipp Leucht, MD, PhD new study published in the journal Development , a group of researchers at NYU Langone Health discovered that this maintenance role in adulthood may be spearheaded by the same family of Hox (or homeobox) genes that are better known for directing bone formation during embryonic development. A Newly Discovered Role in Adult Bone Maintenance In mice and humans, 39 Hox genes act as site-specific transcriptional factors to guide immature stem cells in different regions of the developing embryo. Their precise expression patterns act like zip codes to direct where heart muscle, nerve, bone, and other tissues should form, helping to establish the organism’s body plan. The new research suggests that the Hox genes’ previously unreported role later in life may help keep pools of periosteal stem and progenitor cells at the ready in the bone’s outer periosteum membrane. These available replacement cells can then help maintain healthy tissue and heal broken bones, again in a highly location-dependent manner. “Our data revealed a previously unknown function for Hox genes as essential location-specific regulators of stem cell maturity in adulthood, with short-term local increases in their expression able to drive healing,” says study senior author and orthopedic trauma surgeon In the adult skeleton, he and colleagues found, Hox genes are highly expressed by periosteal stem and progenitor cells but not by more mature cell types like osteoblasts. The research team showed that a deficiency in Hox genes spurs a decrease in the abundance and proliferation of skeletal stem cells, and an increase in their propensity to differentiate into more mature cell types. In a mix of stem and progenitor cells grown in culture, conversely, increasing the expression of the Hoxa10 gene reduced the cells’ tendency to differentiate and increased their capacity to self-renew. “The therapeutic promise of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people is massive.” When they differentiate, skeletal stem cells give rise to progenitor cells with more limited lineage options and defined lifespans. Here too, the researchers found that overexpressing the gene yielded dramatic results: The transcription factor drove a reprogramming process that reverted a significant fraction of skeletal progenitor cells to a more primitive, self-renewing stem cell–like state. Location-Specific Hox Code Governs Bone Repair As in the embryonic development process, the reprogramming seemed to be highly location dependent. The reversion to more naive stem cells, they found, was restricted to adult stem cells from the same anatomical region where the corresponding Hox genes are expressed, like the gene’s preferential expression in the tibia and the Hoxa5 gene’s preferential expression in anterior ribs. In support of the group’s previous research demonstrating a loss of functional skeletal stem cells with age and an undermining of the skeleton’s regenerative capacity, the new study showed a coincident reduction in Hox expression with age. In mice, they discovered, temporarily overexpressing partially restored some of the age-related loss in the skeletal tissue’s ability to heal a tibia fracture. If borne out by more research, clinicians might be able to reprogram the more prevalent progenitor cells in adult skeletal tissue and return them to a more primitive state. The newly converted cells, in turn, could help replenish declining skeletal stem cell populations and improve the bone-healing process in older or repair-compromised patients. “The therapeutic promise of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people is massive,” Dr. Leucht says. Philipp Leucht, MD, PhD, is the Raj-Sobti-Menon Associate Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, an associate professor of cell biology, and vice chair for research in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. His research focuses on the molecular and cellular processes of bone healing. Providing Relief for Patients Struggling with Vulvar Conditions Vulvovaginal disorders, including vulvar pain, chronic vulvovaginal itching or irritation, and skin conditions such as lichen sclerosus and lichen simplex chronicus, occur frequently and are a major reason many women seek healthcare. About one-third of vulvovaginal disorders are gynecologic in nature, one-third are dermatologic, and the remaining are undiagnosed vulvovaginitis, says Rebecca G. Podolsky, MD , a general gynecologist and director of NYU Langone Health’s Center for Vulvar Health. “These conditions can be challenging and time-consuming to diagnose and treat. Patients often see multiple doctors before they receive a diagnosis and treatment plan.” “The Center for Vulvar Health provides comprehensive and thorough care in this often-overlooked area.” Gynecologists often receive limited training in the diagnosis and management of vulvar conditions, Dr. Podolsky says. These disorders can also be underrecognized by dermatologists , who may lack comfort with examination techniques and be unfamiliar with normal anatomic variations. Additionally, many of these conditions are not resolved in one or two visits, making them challenging to manage in a general gynecologic practice, Dr. Podolsky adds. Recognizing Vulvar Pain Vulvar pain, or vulvodynia, is a common condition seen at the Center for Vulvar Health. For years, patients with vulvar pain have dealt with uncertain diagnoses and little in the way of treatment, Dr. Podolsky says. “That’s starting to change—there’s more recognition of the problem now.” “Chronic vulvar pain is prevalent and has a significant impact on quality of life, including sexual function,” she adds. “It can be a very frustrating condition for the patient since the causes are multifactorial and they have usually been told nothing is wrong because their skin looks normal.” The pathophysiology of vulvar pain is difficult to determine and can be infectious, inflammatory, or neuropathic in nature, Dr. Podolsky says. A diagnosis requires careful listening to the patient’s symptoms, a focused physical examination, and attention to the common comorbidities (medical and sexual) with which vulvar pain can be associated. “It can be a long process untangling the causes and finding the right treatments.” Possible treatment options include topical or oral medications, injections, physical therapy, lifestyle interventions, and surgical procedures. “It can be a long process untangling the causes and finding the right treatments,” Dr. Podolsky notes. New Treatments for Vaginal Infections Dr. Podolsky sees numerous patients with vulvovaginal symptoms caused by yeast or bacteria. About 75 percent of women in the United States develop a vaginal yeast infection, or candidiasis, during their lifetime. “While many of these conditions are easily treated and resolved, some patients have recurrent or treatment-resistant vulvovaginitis,” Dr. Podolsky says. “Now we have new tools in the arsenal, including Brexafemme (ibrexafungerp), the first new antifungal to be FDA-approved in over 20 years for recurrent yeast infections.” Vulvar Skin Conditions and Cancer The Center for Vulvar Health also treats several skin conditions that often affect the vulva, such as lichen sclerosus and lichen planus. Both are inflammatory autoimmune diseases that confer an increased risk for squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva. It is important for those affected to be on long-term treatment and have regular examinations to keep the disorder under control, prevent or treat symptoms, and lower the risk for developing cancer, Dr. Podolsky notes. She recommends that gynecologists and dermatologists examine the vulva carefully, empower patients to discuss complaints, “and make use of resources like our center.” Rebecca G. Podolsky, MD, is a general gynecologist and director of the Center for Vulvar Health. Her clinical focus is on the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic conditions that affect the vulva. She is also a North American Menopause Society–certified menopause practitioner. Expanding Support for Perinatal Mental Illness Perinatal mood and anxiety disorders are common, with roughly 50 percent of cases in pregnant women going undiagnosed. Of those who receive a diagnosis, only a fraction receive successful treatment. In addition to the considerable effects on maternal and infant morbidity and mortality , there is a large cost burden associated with these disorders, particularly perinatal depression and anxiety. To begin to close these gaps in diagnosis and treatment, the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine has launched a Perinatal Mental Health Program aiming to strengthen providers’ ability to identify and treat women who are experiencing anxiety, depression, mood disorders, or other mental health issues during the perinatal period. “Too many women are falling through the cracks, despite the existence of evidence-based treatments.” Olivia P. Myrick, MD “International guidelines recommend screening for mental health disorders including depression during the postpartum period. However, once the screening is completed, following up with appropriate clinical intervention often does not occur,” says Jessica M. Vernon, MD , director of the new program and a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology. Changing the Postpartum Trajectory Unfortunately, the limited availability of specialized mental health providers is a significant barrier to integrated healthcare in primary care settings and is especially problematic for pregnant women or those in the postpartum period. “Common barriers to accessing care include lack of physician availability and issues with insurance reimbursement,” says , director of education for the Perinatal Mental Health Program and a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology. “Very few psychiatrists specialize in pregnant and postpartum women, and few obstetricians are trained to manage psychiatric issues.” Launched in 2021, NYU Langone’s program has already forged strong collaborative relationships with reproductive psychiatrists and overhauled outpatient workflows, including hiring a new psychiatry fellow to help women with more complex mental health needs and educating obstetric providers on improved screening and treatment initiation. In addition, the program has recruited a dedicated social worker to manage lower-risk patients. Through the screening process, the providers share referrals and support each other in providing evidence-based, personalized treatment. Forging Unique Relationships Additional barriers to mental healthcare in pregnancy include lack of reimbursement and lengthy wait times for psychiatrists. However, these limitation are mitigated through the unique patient–provider relationships within the obstetric care setting. There is a growing consensus that integrating mental health services into existing service settings, including primary care, is a promising means of increasing access to mental healthcare services; and changes in reimbursement policies can be effective in this regard. “The model is unique in that it is fully integrated, ensuring that patients will be screened appropriately and reimbursed for provider consultations,” explains Dr. Vernon. “We want everyone to have access to the best-quality care regardless of financial status.” “The model is unique in that it is fully integrated, ensuring that patients will be screened appropriately and reimbursed for provider consultations. We want everyone to have access to the best-quality care regardless of financial status.” NYU Langone’s perinatal mental health team meets weekly to discuss high-risk patients to ensure they are managed appropriately. With evidence demonstrating the effectiveness of medication and therapy for many perinatal mood disorders, treatment primarily delivered by an obstetric team is optimal, and the direct costs are often reimbursed for patients who are already receiving concurrent prenatal care within the practice. Expanding the Project Nationally Today, many obstetrics and gynecology residents and clinicians lack sufficient awareness of mental illness during pregnancy, contributing to the many cases that go unrecognized. Dr. Myrick and Dr. Vernon plan to improve education by launching a series of lectures and by forming partnerships with key stakeholders, such as the National Curriculum in Reproductive Psychiatry , to disseminate these materials broadly. In the long term, they hope to develop a national curriculum for obstetrics and gynecology trainees, which will be formally published and made available to medical educators. “Too many women are falling through the cracks, despite the existence of evidence-based treatments,” says Dr. Myrick. “We need to improve access to education, especially for obstetrics and gynecology trainees.” “The team plans to validate and further refine the model in the coming months, with the potential for telemedicine to be used in the future for diagnosis and treatment.” Obstetrics, Gynecology Olivia P. Myrick, MD, is director of education for the Perinatal Mental Health Program and associate director of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency. She specializes in providing compassionate, evidence-based care and support for women throughout pregnancy and childbirth and after delivery. Jessica M. Vernon, MD, is director of the Perinatal Mental Health Program and a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology. Her research focuses on the development of programs that provide a holistic approach to patient care, including mental and emotional support during the pregnancy and postpartum period. NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2023 AAOS Annual Meeting Our physicians and world leaders gathered in Las Vegas March 7–11, 2023, for the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS). Two Dexamethasone Doses Are Safe & Effective After Primary TKA Analgesic benefits of second dexamethasone dose in patients with diabetes outweigh transient blood sugar rise. Expanding the Practice of In-Office Needle Arthroscopy NYU Langone Health debuts a first-of-its-kind fellowship in a minimally invasive procedure. A First in Arthroscopy: Wireless Camera Surgery Wireless arthroscopy camera system, first of its kind, could decrease costs and patient risks in orthopedics. New Percutaneous Ablation Method Relieves Pelvic Tumor Pain and Instability￼ Minimally invasive CT, ablation, and cement fixation technique improves pain and mobility in a patient with multiple myeloma. Multidisciplinary Conferences Improve Outcomes in Complex Spine Surgery Preoperative conferences for high-risk patients significantly reduce complications, readmissions, and reoperation rates. Overcoming Injustice in Addiction Medicine , the Barbara Wilson Associate Professor of Psychiatry in the and an associate professor in the , has devoted her career to helping racial and ethnic minoritized people achieve wellness and recovery from substance use disorders. Recently, she was selected as the first recipient of the Award for the Promotion of Inclusion, Diversity, Equality, and Justice in Addiction Medicine from the American Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM) Dr. Jordan is the co-lead for community engagement at NYU Langone’s . Additionally, she is director of the equity, diversity, and inclusion initiative for the National Institute of Drug Abuse’s Justice Community Opioid Innovation Network recently spoke with Dr. Jordan about the ASAM honor and the critical nature of this work. Integrating Cultural and Structural Competency into Care Dr. Jordan, congratulations on the ASAM award to be presented at next year’s conference. How did your clinical and research interests evolve to focus on diversity, equity, and inclusion in addiction medicine? Dr. Jordan: I describe my work as seeing how external factors beyond the physician–patient relationship impact health outcomes. When I was in medical school and treating patients in the Bronx, a lot of the work we did focused on cultural competency—how patients’ cultural views and understanding of their illness impacts decision-making and behavior related to their illness. This is necessary, but not sufficient. Additionally, factors like immigration status, or poverty, or coming from a minoritized background, or not having access to education had a strong impact on health. At Yale New Haven Hospital, I helped to establish a co-occurring disorders clinic that focused on integrating structural competency into caring for patients with both mental illness and addiction. We called this clinic the Medication for Addiction Treatment Consultation Center, where we not only dealt with someone’s substance use disorder but also tried to understand how factors in the environment like homelessness, legal problems, and racism affect their health. We formed partnerships with community organizations to ensure that patients had housing, legal support, etc., in connection with treating their mental illness and addiction. The State of Addiction Care in the United States Looking more broadly across the United States, how would you characterize the current state of addiction care and harm reduction when it comes to minoritized and marginalized communities? I am hopeful about the possibilities and what we can do with all the resources that we have in this nation. But the reality is that there is still an overwhelming erasure of the stark inequities that exist in terms of the current drug overdose crisis. There’s recent scholarship showing that Black people actually outpaced the rate of White people in drug overdose deaths . That’s not being covered with the same kind of ferociousness as when opioids affected the White population in the 2000s. That’s really important. If those managing treatment don’t understand what the statistics are, they don’t assess people from varying backgrounds for the same rates of use, which is a problem. If you don’t assess, then you cannot form a diagnosis. If you don’t form a diagnosis, people cannot be treated. “If those managing treatment don’t understand what the statistics are, they don’t assess people from varying backgrounds for the same rates of use, which is a problem. If you don’t assess, then you cannot form a diagnosis. If you don’t form a diagnosis, people cannot be treated.” Another thing that’s really unfortunate is that we have these two tiers of medical care. There is amazing treatment for people who are misusing opioids, and it is still overwhelmingly accessed by White males. Even if they have access to insurance, Black, Latinx, and Indigenous people are not getting access to the lifesaving treatment known as buprenorphine. Bringing Awareness, Leveraging Resources How does your work aim to address these inequities? Part of what I have tried to do in my lab, The Jordan Wellness Collaborative, is bring awareness to these issues and to think about innovative or creative ways that we can get people from racial and ethnic minoritized backgrounds engaged in education. Also, improving treatment initiation and engagement so that if they start addiction treatment they stay because their points of views are valued. Another thing we’re doing is leveraging resources to lift up harm reduction programs led by predominantly Black and Latinx organizations to support their efforts to stop the preventable deaths that are occurring right now. We are also teaching our trainees about safety optimization and about the different cultural considerations for people from racial and ethnic minoritized communities and why they might be hesitant to engage in harm reduction services. Incorporating Inclusion in Practice As the inaugural recipient of this award, do you have any plans to work with the ASAM to advance these types of efforts nationally? I’m excited to be working with ASAM to develop a virtual curriculum, not just for trainees, but to support doctors—addiction specialists who are already in the field and generalists who want to take care of this population but may not have had access to this knowledge during their training. That’s huge because we’re talking about intersecting identities, not just racial and ethnic minoritized groups, but people who are involved in the carceral system, people who are from gender and sexual minority statuses. We’ve just produced the first module in that series. ASAM is rolling that out at the start of the new year. How would you advise practitioners across the United States who want to be more involved in advancing equity and inclusion in their clinical work or in their research? Over the years my colleagues and I have developed a whole set of resources, which are available through the REACH Program I also encourage people to get involved in AAAP, the American Academy of Addiction Psychiatrists. They have provided a clinical support series, and a lot of the webinars over the past 18 months have been created to teach about racial and social justice in addiction. Other groups like the ASAM and American College of Academic Addiction Medicine (ACAAM) are following suit. Ayana Jordan, MD, PhD, is the Barbara Wilson Associate Professor of Psychiatry and an associate professor of population health. She is also the co-lead for community engagement at NYU Langone’s Institute for Excellence in Health Equity. Her clinical and research studies focus on increasing access to evidence-based treatments for racial and ethnic minorities with substance use and other mental health disorders, utilizing community-engaged research principles. Dual Portal Endoscopic Spine Surgery: Honing a Game Changer Traditional spine surgery requires a midline incision and dissection of muscle to expose the underlying bone. More recently, orthopedic surgeons have used tubular retractors and a microscope to perform less invasive operations, but they still require open dissection of the tissue, leading to soft tissue destruction, denervation, and longer periods of postoperative pain and recovery. A breakthrough method debuted at NYU Langone Health in 2022, called dual portal endoscopic spine surgery, is a “game changer” for minimally invasive techniques, says Yong H. Kim, MD , director of the degenerative spine service in the Division of Spine Surgery . Like endoscopic knee surgery, it requires only two tiny incisions for a camera and surgical tools, minimizing pain and recovery times. “The postoperative pain and discomfort that patients have described is remarkably different.” “The postoperative pain and discomfort that patients have described is remarkably different,” Dr. Kim says. Introducing the Endoscopic Technique In June of 2022, Dr. Kim traveled to Korea to learn the technique firsthand from surgeons there. “That was just an unbelievable, eye-opening experience,” he says. “When I came back I said, ‘We’ve got to do this!’” Returning to NYU Langone, Dr. Kim trained Charla R. Fischer, MD , an associate professor of orthopedic surgery. Since last August, the two have performed a few dozen endoscopic spine surgeries. So far, NYU Langone is among only a handful of centers in the United States and the only one in the New York metropolitan region offering the technique. Dr. Fischer is also one of the only female spine surgeons in the world performing the method. Multiple Benefits for Surgeons and Patients The surgical procedure begins with a 4-millimeter cut to insert a camera onto the top of the patient’s spine. A second, even smaller incision further down the back creates a working channel. “Then you triangulate and meet at the intended surgical target,” Dr. Kim says. “While the camera is illuminating the space, you can do all of the work.” Most degenerative lumbar spine surgeries can use the technique, including discectomies, laminectomies, and fusions. As the surgeons hone their skills, they can apply it to the thoracic and cervical spine as well, Dr. Kim says. “Our goal is to do the same surgical procedures in the spine, but with smaller access to the area and less tissue disruption and muscle and bone resection on the way,” Dr. Fischer says. “I think as patients learn about this particular technique, they’re going to start asking about it because the outcomes are so good.” The method’s flexibility provides a better ergonomic option for surgeons and allows them to more easily see across the spine. Because the surgery requires only a minimal closure of skin and not muscle fascia, the procedure time can be reduced as well. Dr. Kim adds that the capital investment is considerably less than that required for conventional endoscopic surgery. “This technique utilizes everything that we already have, such as arthroscopic equipment that we use for knee and shoulder surgeries,” he says. For patients, an additional benefit is a lessened need for postsurgical narcotics and an accompanying reduction in the risk of side effects such as drowsiness and constipation. “You don’t have that additive effect of issues related to the narcotic use,” Dr. Fischer says. “I think as patients learn about this particular technique, they’re going to start asking about it because the outcomes are so good,” she adds. New Opportunities for Collaboration Conducting the new surgery at the main medical center gives the surgeons access to additional tools used by a range of other specialists, Dr. Fischer says. Likewise, nurses in different services provide valuable input about tools and techniques. “If we had been at the orthopedic hospital, it would’ve been easy to use the arthroscopy tools like a knee and shoulder scope,” she says. “But we’re at the main medical center, where everyone’s pioneering at the next level. It was really fun to see and learn what other surgical specialties are doing.” Beyond training NYU Langone’s five orthopedic fellows, the plans to host an annual cadaver lab to teach other surgeons in the region and meet the growing demand. Colleagues in the Department of Neurosurgery have expressed interest as well. “The Korean surgeons made this technique really good,” Dr. Kim says. “We want to try to make it even more innovative.” Spine Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery Charla R. Fischer, MD, is an associate professor of orthopedic surgery, director of quality and patient safety in the Division of Spine Surgery, and a spine surgery specialist at NYU Langone’s Spine Center. Orthopedic Surgery, Spine Surgery Yong H. Kim, MD, is a clinical professor of orthopedic surgery and director of the degenerative spine service in the Department or Othropedic Surgery’s Division of Spine Surgery. Oocyte Cryopreservation Outperforms IVF for Delayed Childbearing PHOTO: Juliana Thomas Photography For the growing numbers of women in the U.S. and many other industrialized countries who are postponing childbearing beyond age 35, oocyte cryopreservation (OC) has become a sought-after fertility preservation method. However, most frozen oocytes have not yet been implanted and data on results remain scarce. Experts at NYU Langone Health recently published the largest U.S. study to date on thaw outcomes from OC performed for age-related fertility decline. The report was based on 15 years of electronic medical records from the Notably, the team found the live birth rate from OC significantly exceeded the live birth rate per cycle in women using IVF at a later age. Live births using OC were 39 percent compared to IVF rates of 21.1 percent in women ages 38 to 40 and 11.1 percent in women ages 41 to 42, as reported by the CDC “Better understanding the live birth rate from egg freezing for age-related fertility decline is necessary to inform patient decision-making,” Sarah Druckenmiller Cascante, MD “Better understanding the live birth rate from egg freezing for age-related fertility decline is necessary to inform patient decision-making,” says lead author Sarah Druckenmiller Cascante, MD. “Our findings shed light on the factors that track with successful births, which include careful screening of embryos to be thawed and implanted.” The Benefits of Early Preservation The researchers examined the records of 543 patients seeking OC services at the center between 2005 and 2020. The median age at first OC was 38.3, and the median age at thaw was 42.6. Certain variables correlated with even higher success rates. Among women who were under 38 at first OC, the rate of live births was 51 percent. Across all ages at first OC, the rate rose to 58 percent for women who thawed more than 20 mature eggs. Women who were under 38 at first OC and thawed more than 20 mature eggs achieved a live birth rate of 70 percent. The length of frozen oocyte storage did not affect outcomes. Preimplantation genetic screening with embryos from frozen eggs resulted in lower miscarriage rates and higher live birth rates per transfer. Such screening also allows for single embryo transfers, yielding singleton pregnancies, which are safer for both the mother and child. The Advantages of Real-Life Data Although a few previous studies had shown that OC results in euploidy and pregnancy rates comparable with IVF, most of these included patients with infertility and cancer. The NYU Langone study excluded patients with such diagnoses, focusing on women freezing eggs solely as insurance against age-related fertility decline. Also different from previous studies, the new publication reported real OC data rather than relying on predictive algorithms that extrapolate outcomes from IVF patients and egg donors. “Our results provide realistic expectations for those considering oocyte preservation and demonstrate that egg freezing technology empowers women with improved reproductive autonomy.” “Our results provide realistic expectations for those considering oocyte preservation and demonstrate that egg freezing technology empowers women with improved reproductive autonomy,” adds study senior author , director of the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility. “As younger patients freeze eggs and do more than one cycle, the success rates will be even higher than reported in this study.” Sarah Druckenmiller Cascante, MD, is a fellow in the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility. Her research focuses on fertility preservation and infertility. Alert Banners Increase Prescribing Rates of Heart Failure Medication An automated system that flags patients who could most benefit from mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs), lifesaving drugs for heart failure, more than doubled new prescriptions, according to a pilot program tested by researchers at NYU Langone Health. The study, recently presented at the annual conference of the American College of Cardiology and simultaneously Journal of the American College of Cardiology , is the first to directly compare the effectiveness of alert message types that address heart failure. “Our findings suggest that tailored electronic notifications can boost the prescription of lifesaving drugs.” “Our findings suggest that tailored electronic notifications can boost the prescription of lifesaving drugs,” says study lead author and cardiologist , a clinical instructor in the “By compiling key information in one place, the system may help providers spend less time searching through medical records during a visit and more time speaking with their patients.” Testing the Potential of Automated Alerts While MRAs can greatly increase heart failure survival rates, past studies have shown that almost two-thirds of eligible patients are not prescribed these drugs, says Dr. Mukhopadhyay. Part of the challenge in prescribing MRAs is that the medical information needed to determine a patient’s eligibility is scattered throughout their electronic health record. As a result, experts have been exploring the use of digital messaging tools that automatically analyze standard clinical guidelines and relevant medical data to make treatment decisions easier. “Well-designed electronic tools can be a rapid, low-cost, and impactful way to improve care.” In the new study, the researchers designed a pilot program to find the most effective type of digital alert, testing two automated technologies over six months. For one of the technologies, alerts appeared on the top corner of patient healthcare charts, which are routinely reviewed during visits. They included data that may inform decisions about MRA therapy, such as blood pressure, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and potassium levels in the blood. For the other technology tested, cardiologists received a monthly message within the healthcare system’s internal messaging platform that included a list of those eligible for MRAs. Through this “email,” healthcare providers could open medical charts and read information relevant for prescribing MRAs. Between April and October 2022, the research team tested the notification systems at more than 60 cardiology outpatient clinics. Strong Support for Digital Messaging The results showed that cardiologists who received a banner-like alert on their computer screen prescribed MRA therapy for about 30 percent of their patients over the course of the trial. Those who were instead sent monthly email-like messages prescribed MRA therapy roughly 16 percent of the time. By contrast, those who received neither type of message prescribed the therapy for 12 percent of their patients. “Well-designed electronic tools can be a rapid, low-cost, and impactful way to improve care,” adds Dr. Mukhopadhyay. While the results are highly promising, the researchers caution that this technology was only tested in cardiology practices within a large urban healthcare system. The team plans to explore the effectiveness of these tools in other settings in the future. Amrita Mukhopadhyay, MD, is a clinical instructor in the Department of Medicine and member of the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. Her research interests include health services, quality of care, outcomes, healthcare delivery science, and clinical decision support and implementation. Testing Pharmacy-Based Harm Reduction Programs for Drug Users For the past two decades, Crystal F. Lewis, PhD , the Laurie M. Tisch Scholar for Racial Equity in Mental Health, has studied the epidemiology of substance use, with an eye toward improving public health approaches to harm reduction and access to care, regardless of active use. A recurring thread in her research has been the potential for pharmacy-based interventions to eliminate disparities and improve health outcomes for communities contending with substance use and related medical and social conditions. “My goal is to find creative ways to deliver care that’s amenable and relevant to communities who have historically been neglected by our healthcare systems,” Dr. Lewis explains. “In many Black, Latinx, and immigrant communities, people use pharmacists for medical advice and counseling instead of relying upon doctors—and particularly independent, minority-owned pharmacists operating in low-income communities.” “In many Black, Latinx, and immigrant communities, people use pharmacists for medical advice and counseling instead of relying upon doctors.” A recent NIH-funded study published in the Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment led by Dr. Lewis and Babak Tofighi, MD , assistant professor of population health, assessed community pharmacists’ perspectives regarding naloxone dispensation and counseling in nonurban areas of New York State. The goal, says Dr. Lewis, was to better understand factors influencing pharmacy provision of overdose education and naloxone distribution. Probing the Perspectives of Frontline Providers Overdose prevention efforts have been shown to be an effective model for reducing fatalities among persons who use opioids, including heroin. New York State’s Opioid Overdose Prevention Program (OOPP) has established standing orders for naloxone dispensation in pharmacies. The medication can be covered under Medicaid and most commercial health plans. Pharmacists also offer printed handouts educating about opioid overdose, as well as topics such as storing naloxone and obtaining refills. The recent mixed-methods study led by Dr. Lewis’s team was conducted among 60 community pharmacists located in 6 New York counties and registered to participate in OOPP. The 29-item semistructured survey revealed an array of insights that Dr. Lewis says might be applicable to similar programs nationwide. Over 58 percent of participating pharmacists reported dispensing naloxone, with an average median of 2 prescriptions per month. Most shared positive beliefs about pharmacy naloxone dispensation, including support for OOPP (93 percent), that pharmacists should play a bigger role in overdose prevention (87 percent), and that naloxone reduces opioid-related overdose (88 percent). Most reported no loss of business related to OOPP participation (85 percent), and no instances of theft or crime by naloxone customers (80 percent). Most were also supportive of expanding pharmacy-based access to vaccinations, referrals to free or on-site HIV testing, informational resources on safe syringe use and disposal, and referrals to medical and social services, including pharmacy-based treatment access for substance use disorders. “Our findings reveal high acceptability for naloxone provision and expansion of pharmacy practice to include a wide variety of public health services.” “Our findings reveal high acceptability for naloxone provision and expansion of pharmacy practice to include a wide variety of public health services,” Dr. Lewis notes. “Coupling pharmacy-based overdose prevention with offerings like HIV and HCV screenings, vaccinations, and access to telemedicine could further increase engagement in services that are otherwise inaccessible due to social and structural barriers, including the stigma and discrimination commonly inflicted upon communities of color who are heavily burdened with opioid use.” Crystal F. Lewis, PhD, is the Laurie M. Tisch Scholar for Racial Equity in Mental Health and an associate professor of psychiatry. She also serves as the division head of Social Solutions and Services Research at the Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research and as director of the Center for Research on Cultural and Structural Equity in Behavioral Health. Her research interests center on the epidemiology of substance abuse–associated harms, and the social, cultural, and structural forces driving inequity in prevention and treatment access. Building the Case for Descemet Stripping Only in Fuchs Dystrophy Surgeon’s view of the Descemet stripping only (DSO) procedure. Kathryn Colby, MD, PhD , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor and chair in the Department of Ophthalmology, describes an “a-ha” moment that led her to consider removal of Descemet membrane without donor tissue transplant as a possible treatment for Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy (FECD). It was 2013, and new research was emerging on the pathophysiology of FECD, as well as anecdotal case reports of corneal clearance in FECD without insertion of donor corneal tissues. Dr. Colby heard a colleague present at EuCornea on a small series of cases involving deliberate descemetorhexis. Convinced that this strategy should work in FECD, she decided to try it. In a report in , Dr. Colby describes how these observations led to the development of her Descemet stripping only (DSO) procedure, its current status, and what successful DSO tells us about the pathophysiology of FECD. “The corneal world was skeptical when we began discussing our in 2016,” she says, “but this is a revolution in the surgical treatment of Fuchs disease. It’s been a phenomenal arc from discovery to practice.” The Role of ROCK Inhibitors FECD accounts for more than a third of the corneal transplants performed in the United States. For many years, the only transplantation option consisted of penetrating keratoplasty, which carries risk of tissue rejection and blindness. In 2012, endothelial keratoplasty became the most commonly performed keratoplasty procedure, and selective keratoplasty became the primary surgical treatment for FECD. As clinical evidence mounted for minimally invasive descemetorhexis without keraplasty, the next major advance was a report that a Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitor—ripasudil, approved in Japan as glaucoma therapy—rescued two patients with slow-to-clear FECD “We know that the endothelial cells don’t divide after birth, but this showed that they retain some replicative capability,” Dr. Colby explains. A Promising Case Series The DSO procedure pioneered by Dr. Colby combines removing the center part of the cornea’s endothelial layer with the novel application of a ROCK inhibitor to trigger cell migration and regeneration. “Equipping the body with its own means to heal is always preferable to foreign transplant, and we now understand that endothelial cells do in fact have that capability once damaged cells  are removed,” she says. Citicoline Protects Against Neurodegeneration in Glaucoma without Altering IOP Study shows citicoline improves outcomes for elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). In chronic IOP elevation, oral citicoline treatment significantly reduced visual acuity decline, microstructural integrity loss, axonal degeneration, and demyelination—all without altering IOP. SOURCE: Neurotherapeutics. 2021 Apr;18(2):1339-1359. Intraocular pressure (IOP) is the only modifiable risk factor for glaucoma. Yet, neurodegeneration may continue despite adequate IOP control. Citicoline, a chemical known to protect nerve cells , also slows glaucoma, found a Neurotherapeutics Kevin Chan, PhD Neuroimaging & Visual Science Laboratory , was senior author of the study. The researchers used a murine model of glaucoma and multi-parametric MRI, behavioral assessments, and histology to evaluate citicoline’s effect on different magnitudes and durations of IOP elevation. Additionally, they evaluated the effects of oral citicoline treatment as a neurotherapeutic in experimental glaucoma. “Our study suggests that citicoline protects against glaucoma through a mechanism different from that of standard IOP treatments.” In rats with mildly elevated eye pressure, tissues along the visual pathway decayed for up to five weeks after the injury occurred. In a chronic IOP elevation model, three weeks of oral citicoline treatment substantially reduced visual brain integrity loss and visual acuity decline without altering IOP. “In addition, choline metabolites and functional brain signals restored to near-normal levels,” Dr. Chan says. These effects were sustained for another three weeks after treatment was discontinued. “Our study suggests that citicoline protects against glaucoma through a mechanism different from that of standard IOP treatments,” Dr. Chan says. Kevin C. Chan, PhD Kevin C. Chan, PhD, is an assistant professor of ophthalmology, radiology, neuroscience, and biomedical engineering, and director of the Neuroimaging & Visual Science Laboratory. His research focuses on developing and applying new, noninvasive methods for imaging degeneration, development, protection, plasticity, and regeneration in the visual system. Protecting Patients With Obesity From Severe COVID-19 Bariatric surgery may lower risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19. Emerging Trends in Pancreatic Cancer Management Two pioneers in novel treatments discuss the most significant innovations on the horizon. Deep Tumors Fully Resected with Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Endoscopic image showing the submucosal dissection performed using an electrocautery knife. Patients Benefits of ESD Gastroenterologists at NYU Langone Health are increasingly turning to an outpatient procedure to remove early cancers from the gastrointestinal tract. The procedure, known as endoscopic submucosal dissection, or ESD, is allowing more patients to avoid complex surgeries such as esophagectomy. “Most patients who receive ESD are discharged the next day, after observation. This is a major difference from surgical resection which often requires an inpatient stay of up to 10 days or more,” says , chief of endoscopy and one of only a small number of physicians in the U.S. performing and teaching the highly specialized procedure. During the procedure, Haber uses a high-definition endoscope to locate and mark tumors within the esophagus, stomach, or colon of anesthetized patients. He then injects the area with a solution that includes epinephrine, hetastarch, and methylene blue to elevate the lesion and protect surrounding mucosa, before removing the whole tumor with an electrocautery knife. The approach allows a more precise resection than other techniques, Haber says. More Nuanced Assessment “ESD is a more effective option than endoscopic mucosal resection because it allows a deeper resection. It also allows us to remove the lesion in one piece to ensure that all cancerous cells are taken out.” “ESD is a more effective option than endoscopic mucosal resection because it allows a deeper resection. It also allows us to remove the lesion in one piece.” Whole, ESD-resected tumors allow for more accurate histopathological assessment. Outcomes from ESD are also comparable to other surgical interventions, Haber says, with acute bleeding as the most common adverse event, followed by perforation, but all manageable with endoscopic treatment. Broad Treatment Potential Patients with Barrett’s esophagus, early-stage dysplastic cancers, or superficial tumors of the esophagus, stomach, or colon all stand to benefit from ESD. These patients would otherwise face invasive surgery to remove parts of the gastrointestinal tract. Deep Tumors Prepared for ESD Endoscopic image showing an esophageal tumor, with margins (yellow arrows) marked by electrocautery. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is an emerging technique in the U.S. to resect deep GI tumors. First, tumor margins are marked using electrocautery, as shown here in a 60-year-old patient with a history of acid reflux and Barrett’s esophagus. Prior biopsy revealed adenocarcinoma. Improved Tumor Visibility Endoscopic image showing the lesion elevated from the muscle layer. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Submucosal injection is used to help elevate the lesion from the muscle layer and improve its visibility. Tissue traction further exposes the submucosal space. Whole Tumor Resection Endoscopic image showing the submucosal dissection performed using an electrocautery knife. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Moving an electrocautery knife circumferentially, the endoscopist performs the submucosal dissection, peeling the intact lesion away from the surrounding esophageal muscle layer with subsequent dissection of the connective tissue of the submucosa beneath the lesion. Entire Specimen Analysis Image of the excised lesion, mounted before being submitted for histopathology. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Once resected, the whole lesion can be pinned and sent for histopathology. Pathological Finding Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining revealing esophageal adenocarcinoma. SOURCE: Katherine Sun, MD, PhD. In this case, pathology revealed esophageal invasive adenocarcinoma with clear margins and no lymphovascular or perineural invasion. Minimal Damage, Healthy Outcomes Endoscopic image 3 months following the procedure showing healthy esophageal tissue. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Bleeding sites are kept clearly visible throughout ESD, allowing quick coagulation when needed. The lesion is completely resected without surgery. At three months, follow-up endoscopy (depicted above) for this patient showed a single healthy-appearing scar with no stenosis or inflammation found in the entire esophagus. Gregory B. Haber, MD, is a gastroenterologist and chief of endoscopy. His clinical interests include developing minimally invasive endoscopic procedures to treat early cancer of the digestive system and mentoring others in advanced endoscopic techniques and technologies. Helping Women Ascend the Ophthalmic Pyramid Christina R. Prescott, MD, PhD, and Kathryn A. Colby, MD, PhD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff While approximately one-quarter of practicing ophthalmologists are female, the numbers lag when it comes to composition of ophthalmic journal editorial and professional society boards and leadership positions in academic ophthalmology departments, says internationally renowned cornea specialist , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, M.D., Professor of Ophthalmology and chair of the Department of Ophthalmology. Dr. Colby, who joined NYU Langone Health in 2020, recently authored an editorial in JAMA Ophthalmology on the status of women in ophthalmology. recently joined NYU Langone as director of the Division of Cornea Services and vice chair for education in the Department of Ophthalmology. Here, Drs. Colby and Prescott discuss the state of gender parity, the value of mentorship, and strategies to improve gender equity in the next generation of ophthalmologists. Inequities in Publishing and Speaking Dr. Colby, you’ve written and spoken extensively about gender parity in ophthalmology, especially regarding publications in peer-reviewed journals and invited talks at national conferences. Where does the field land on gender parity? Dr. Colby: Ophthalmology is still largely a specialty of white men! Recent studies show that ophthalmology departments are among the least diverse of the medical specialties. Women ophthalmologists do a reasonably good job of publishing, given that the vast majority of ophthalmologists are not in academics. However, when it comes to invited editorials and commentaries, recent articles that show that women lag behind men—that’s what triggered my last editorial. One study showed the proportion of female ophthalmology editorialists is now approximately 30 percent, up from less than 20 percent in the years between 2005 and 2009, which is encouraging. But most female authors tended to be first authors rather than senior authors. And only one of the 20 journals included had a female editor-in-chief during the time of this study. The same study showed that only two of 15 society presidents were women in 2018. While there’s been an increase in the overall number of female speakers at nine major ophthalmology meetings, female speakers at national forums tend to give submitted, rather than invited talks. Not surprisingly, having a woman on the program committee appeared to increase the number of women on the stage. What are some steps that can be taken to ensure more women are recognized? The composition of editorial boards and program committees is critical. Some journals do a very good job of gender parity in both their editorial boards and invited submissions. When you’re invited to write your opinion, de facto, you’re a thought leader. Adopting masked reviews is one way—hiding both the name and institution of the author—and some journals have gone to that. Also, as an editorial board member, it is necessary to call it out when you see inequities. As for national forums, women have to continually speak up when the “manels” (all-male panels) are announced. It’s mostly about raising awareness, not accepting the rationale we’re handed. Although, it is kind of uncomfortable to always be the one to say we need to improve. Equipping Trainees and Young Faculty Dr. Prescott, in your role training the next generation of ophthalmologists, how can we go about equipping women with skills that will help them succeed? Dr. Prescott: Women now represent more than 50 percent of medical school students and 40 percent of ophthalmology residents. Currently at NYU Langone, more than 50 percent of the residents are female. The question we have to ask ourselves is “Where do women who start out on the academic track and are headed towards the leadership track start dropping off?” Between assistant and associate professor is where we see the biggest drop. Something happens that derails many of our female colleagues. When women decide to start a family, if they don’t see a pathway to make that happen, they may go to part time while they’re raising young children. If you do that early in your career, you never really catch up in the publishing and presenting arena. If you don’t accept an invitation to speak when you are invited, eventually people are going to stop asking you to speak. Probably the most important thing we can do is to be role models and mentors to young women—to let them know what’s possible by showing them they can take great care of patients, teach, do research, present at meetings and have a family. In terms of publishing and presenting, we’ve built a formalized research curriculum for all our residents, both male and female. It’s a structured program with a timeline, so residents have time to pursue research and receive help in developing projects so they can determine if this is something they’re interested in. As a group, we discuss journal articles and practice giving presentations. We have visiting speakers come in from the leading academic ophthalmology programs to give our residents additional insights. We ensure that our visiting professorships, including two big name lectures, include women. Networking with other female ophthalmologists is important. The Women in Ophthalmology group has been around for approximately 25 years. In 2019, there were 700 people who attended the meeting. It’s a great place to talk about making the transition to academic leadership positions, balancing work and home, the things we’ve been discussing. It’s been really helpful in raising the consciousness of women in the field. Recruiting Diverse Applicants What about gender breakdowns in academic ophthalmology departments? How do you ensure that you’re recruiting diverse trainees and faculty? It helps to have a woman chair! While there has been an increase in women on academic faculties, the bulk of this increase has been at the assistant professor level. Only about one-quarter of professors are women. Women have lower starting salaries and perform fewer surgeries than men. This goes beyond gender parity—ophthalmology is also behind in recruiting URiM (underrepresented in medicine) residents. Some medical trainees just aren’t exposed to ophthalmology; not all medical schools have ophthalmology programs. And ophthalmology is highly competitive. Out of 500 residency spots last year, only 80 percent of senior medical students from United States medical schools who applied matched. And the number is much lower for other categories of applicants. The American Academy of Opthalmology and Association of University Professors of Opthalmology offer minority mentoring programs to help people get into the field. And the Rabb-Venerable Society supports medical students, residents, and fellows in ophthalmology who are from URiM groups. We now hold 20 percent of our residency interview spots for URiM candidates. We have a program where minority high school students come in and shadow department faculty. The students rotate through different specialties, and get help with the college application process. Programs like this expose students to the possibility of a career in medicine—something they may not have thought about otherwise. While there is definitely more awareness, there is still unconscious bias. We all need to pay attention to parity when we invite speakers, give awards, generate research collaborations, write job offers, and appoint committee members. Those of us in leadership positions need to model diversity. Implementing these things is how we’re going to see the downstream effects. Working with medical students, residents and fellows, I am continually reminded that each we all have different strengths and weaknesses. The more diverse our specialty is, the more we can all learn from each other, and the better we can care for our patients. Anemia of ‘Unknown Origin’ Revealed to Be Caused by Large Hiatal Hernia Cameron Lesions: Often Overlooked While large hiatal hernias are well known to cause heartburn, vomiting and regurgitation, their role in causing iron deficiency anemia is easily overlooked. One 68-year-old male went years receiving treatment for his anemia of “unknown origin” with regular iron infusions and blood transfusions. It wasn’t untill he sought care for debilitating symptoms of acid reflux and vomiting from , that the cause of both his gastrointestinal issues and anemia was revealed. After detecting a large hiatal hernia, Dr. Gross made the connection that not only was the hernia affecting the patient’s ability to keep food down, but Cameron lesions, or gastric ulcers that result from the recurrent sliding of the stomach across the opening of the diaphragm, were causing chronic blood loss. “When I did the endoscopy, I saw this irritation or break in the lining where part of the hernia was coming through the diaphragm, indicative of a Cameron erosion,” Dr. Gross explains. “When I did the endoscopy, I saw this irritation or break in the lining where part of the hernia was coming through the diaphragm, indicative of a Cameron erosion.” , then performed a minimally invasive robotic paraesophageal hernia repair, which resolved both the patient’s anemia and gastrointestinal issues. “Every patient that we see is evaluated in a multidisciplinary fashion,” Dr. Damani says. “Having Dr. Gross as the advanced endoscopy specialist who studied the anemia further, having the patient’s hematologist within our system, and our expertise in diagnosing and managing paraesophageal hernias really helped steer the care for this patient in the right direction.” Assessing the Cause of Anemia, Vomiting, Retching Coronal view of CT scan showing large intrathoracic stomach. A 68-year-old male presented with a history of anemia as well as complaints of acid reflux, vomiting, retching, and difficulty keeping food down. Multiple tests completed prior to the patient arriving revealed no obvious reason for the chronic blood loss. The patient was receiving regular iron infusions and blood transfusions to treat the anemia. Detection of Large Hiatal Hernia Axial view of CT scan showing large intrathoracic stomach. Upon referral for management of worsening symptoms, gastroenterologist Seth A. Gross, MD, detected a large hiatal hernia via endoscopy, which was subsequently confirmed on a CT scan. Cameron Lesions and Iron Deficiency Anemia Before paraesophageal hernia repair via minimally invasive robotic surgery. Dr. Gross suspected that, in addition to causing the symptoms of acid reflux, vomiting, and retching, Cameron lesions associated with the hiatal hernia were causing iron deficiency anemia. The patient was then referred to surgeon Tanuja Damani, MD, and underwent a minimally invasive robotic paraesophageal hernia repair. After paraesophageal hernia repair via minimally invasive robotic surgery. Mesh reinforcement of the diaphragm was completed during the repair to reduce the risk of hernia recurrence. In total, the procedure lasted 2.5 hours, and the patient was discharged within 48 hours. Following surgery, the patient’s hemoglobin levels—which reached a low of 5.4 g/dl pre-surgery—returned to normal (>15 g/dl), and his symptoms of acid reflux, vomiting, and retching completely resolved. New Strategies to Increase Colon Cancer Screening Rates Aasma Shaukat, MD, MPH. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Colon cancer screening remains a persistent challenge for gastroenterologists and primary care physicians alike. As expanded guidelines and technologies widen the pool of screen-eligible adults, fewer barriers remain, says , director of outcomes research in the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology at NYU Langone Health. She shares her perspective on colon cancer screening in the U.S. and ways to improve adherence. Screening Challenges Colon cancer screening is a proven strategy to reduce associated deaths. Why aren’t screening levels higher? Dr. Shaukat: It’s a question we constantly ask. Although screening rates have increased over the past 15-20 years, as a nation we’re still at only about 60 percent adherence in eligible adults. Ideally, we’d be at 100 percent, or 80 percent at minimum as recommended by the National Colorectal Cancer Roundtable There are many known racial and ethnic disparities to screening in certain populations, due to lack of healthcare access in general. The pandemic presented another setback, with delays in routine and elective care. In addition, the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) and other recommending organizations recently updated their screening guidelines, lowering the age for initial screening from 50 to 45 in individuals at average risk for colon cancer. For individuals with a family history of colorectal cancer, screening will likely be initiated at age 40. So we’re still playing catch-up after COVID-19 and now we have 21 million additional, screen-eligible patients “We’re still playing catch-up after COVID-19 and now we have 21 million additional, screen-eligible patients Beyond Colonoscopy What are some emerging alternatives to colonoscopy for screening, and how are they beneficial? Colonoscopy has a proven track record in catching cancer at its earliest stage. But at the population level we don’t have the resources, infrastructure, or social supports to reach every eligible patient with colonoscopy. One alternative is fecal immunochemical testing, a stool-based screening test with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity. This approach can be completed at home, so it removes the barrier of meeting with a primary care physician, then a specialist to schedule a colonoscopy. There is also the colon capsule, a pill that contains a small camera able to capture 32 image frames per second as it passes through the colon. The images are uploaded to a transmitter on a patient-worn belt, then read by the gastroenterologist who is looking for polyps that would indicate for colonoscopy. That test is expected to be available for home use in the near future. Additionally, I am principal investigator of a large examining the efficacy of a blood-based test in identifying biomarkers of colon cancer such as cell-free DNA. The intent is to combine this test with artificial intelligence to pinpoint which patients should go on to get a colonoscopy, versus lower-risk patients who can repeat the test in a year or two. This could change the landscape of screening if it’s incorporated in routine primary care labs. From a population health standpoint, what is needed to bring these new screening options to patients? One of my research initiatives is in partnership with our community-based Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, which over several decades have become one of the nation’s largest networks of Federally Qualified Health Centers. There, we have a centralized opportunity to expand screening into the community, by working with center leaders to review their colorectal cancer screening programs and determine how case management can be enhanced. The key message for all screening-age patients and their physicians is that colonoscopy is not for everyone. There are other current and emerging options to effectively reach average-risk populations. The takeaway should be that any colon cancer screening is better than none at all. “The key message for all screening-age patients and their physicians is that colonoscopy is not for everyone. There are other current and emerging options to effectively reach average-risk populations.” A Look Forward Will these new screening technologies and broader eligibility guidelines be enough to overcome our significant disparities in access and utilization, or is more action needed? I would like to see us organize screening programs to systematically identify and complete the screening cascade not just for individuals our own providers care for, but for the population in New York City at large. This will likely require collaborative efforts in conjunction with other healthcare systems and the state health department. In the future, we will likely have an expanded menu of screening test options, and healthcare systems will need to decide what to offer. The diagnostic accuracy and performance characteristics of the individual tests will dictate adoption. For most average-risk individuals—particularly those who’ve had a normal colonoscopy—a blood-, stool-, or capsule-based test may be the right balance of benefit and risk, providing information to inform clinicians’ use of colonoscopy if polyps need to be removed or other lesions are found. This will bring more individuals to colonoscopy who truly need it. An Expanding Place for Neuro-Ophthalmology The editor of the Journal of Neuro-Ophthalmology explains how vision-based testing is changing neurologic research. Laura Balcer, MD , is a professor of neurology, ophthalmology, and population health, and vice chair of the Department of Neurology . An internationally renowned researcher and author of more than 350 publications, Dr. Balcer is editor-in-chief of the . Here, Dr. Balcer discusses her perspectives on advancements in the field and where neuro-ophthalmology is heading. You’ve been appointed editor-in-chief of the . From the research the journal is publishing and the work you and your colleagues are doing at NYU Langone Health, what is on the forefront for the field? Dr. Balcer: There is very exciting work happening in Alzheimer’s and other neurodegenerative diseases. Expanded applications of optical coherence tomography (OCT) and other vision-based diagnostic tools are providing new insights into the effects of these disorders on the eye and visual pathway. Some of the types of tests we are investigating, such as rapid picture-naming, or mobile universal lexicon evaluation system (MULES) and rapid number-naming, or staggered uneven number (SUN), have been around for over 80 years, and can potentially help to predict disease progression. Here at NYU Langone, we are leading collaborative sub-studies of clinical trials that will use OCT, as well as MULES and SUN, to identify markers for Alzheimer’s . Additionally, we have expanded the applications of OCT and of low-contrast letter acuity (eye charts with gray letters on a white background) to the evaluation of other conditions, such as multiple sclerosis (MS) and suspected or concussion in athletes. There is much research being done on COVID-19 and its impact on the central nervous system . Researchers have been evaluating the accelerated use of tele-neuro-ophthalmology over the last two years and how it will impact future neurology and ophthalmology practice. OCT as a Diagnostic Tool in MS You have made significant breakthroughs in the study and early treatment of MS. How is OCT being used as a tool for diagnosing this neurological disorder? We think physical changes in the visual system may be structural markers for neurological disease. Because OCT is non-invasive and relatively easy to use, we can now image structures in the eye that reflect what is going on in the rest of the visual system and potentially in the brain overall. OCT captures images and quantitative thicknesses in the optic nerve head, the retinal nerve fiber layer (axons), and cellular layers of the macula. In MS, the higher resolution of OCT scans may be better able to detect both asymptomatic and symptomatic optic nerve lesions. The optic nerve, despite many patients having inflammation of this structure as a first clinical event in MS, is not yet included as a lesion site in the diagnostic criteria for MS. We are working to change that, with worldwide collaborations and investigations with ocular imaging teams right here at NYU Langone that pioneered OCT. In 2018, we conducted a study that established a threshold for inter-eye differences in degrees of retinal nerve fiber layer and macular thinning that signals a patient has had acute optic neuritis. These inter-eye difference thresholds measured by OCT will be complementary to magnetic resonance imaging in identifying optic nerve lesions. This investigation led to an international, multisite study of 1,530 patients with MS that confirmed the inter-eye difference thresholds for the identification of an optic nerve lesion within a larger and more diverse study cohort. As part of our ongoing MS research, we recently published a study using the world’s largest MS database which demonstrates that early treatment with MS therapies is associated with lower risk of conversion to MS and improved neurological/visual function in patients with optic neuritis. Vision Testing and Cognitive Decline In another emerging research area, what can OCT tell us about CTE and concussion? Are there other new diagnostic tools? In individuals with a history of repetitive head traumas, such as contact sport athletes, the goal is to determine whether the visual pathway can serve as a potential living biomarker for CTE or cognitive decline among those who have a history of contact sports exposure. NYU Langone is one of four study sites for an NIH-funded investigation led by researchers at Boston University to develop criteria for traumatic encephalopathy syndrome—a potential phenotype in living persons at risk for CTE. In a partnership with NYU Langone’s , we are involved in ongoing research on the use of the MULES and SUN tests. These tests, under investigation as research paper/pencil or as part of a research tablet application, were developed at NYU Langone and have shown worse time scores among athletes with concussion on the sideline in the setting of more chronic concussion, and in patients with MS, mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and long-haul symptoms of COVID-19. The MULES, SUN and other rapid automatized naming tasks likely require different brain pathways and networks for visual processing, visual memory, language, and eye movements. Broadening the Field’s Impact Any closing thoughts as you enter this next chapter in your career? We are excited to be neuro-ophthalmologists, since we have learned that vision is a potential avenue to measuring disease and outcomes in areas with both an established repertoire of clinical trials and treatment, and for those fields that are just starting to have effective therapies. The teams at NYU Langone are incredibly collaborative and supportive. We are making tremendous progress in the evaluation and treatment of our patients through the capacity to share knowledge and advancements within and beyond our field. We are grateful to our very knowledgeable and innovative colleagues in neuroradiology, ophthalmology, neuropathology and other specialties. We are also delighted to continue to mentor through our Patient-Oriented Research Curriculum for residents, and to teach trainees about the fundamentals of clinical research. And of course, the impact of the pandemic on neurological training has been an important opportunity to teach our colleagues in neurology how to pivot under circumstances of adversity. Presenters at the 2023 AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health neurologists joined international colleagues in Boston, April 22–27. Scar Dancing Syndrome: The Seven Year Twitch A patient diagnosed with the rare movement disorder receives long-awaited and sustained relief with botulinum toxin. Identifying Markers of Parkinson’s Disease Progression Landmark Parkinson’s Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) expands to include thousands more participants. Enzyme Discovery Unlocks Potential New Treatments for Cancer & Neurodevelopmental Disease By asking the deceptively simple question of how human cells use oxygen, NYU Langone Health researchers have discovered a previously unknown metabolite and the enzyme that makes it. Tracing that enzymatic pathway has led to an investigation of potential cures for a rare but deadly neurodevelopmental disorder and a new target for hard-to-treat malignancies like pancreatic and brain cancers. “We did not go into this research planning to study a childhood neurodevelopmental disease or find a potential treatment for cancer of any sort,” says radiation oncologist Michael E. Pacold, MD, PhD . “That emerged when we started looking into it, but the goal was always very simple: find something fundamental to biology.” Discovery of a New Metabolic Pathway Dr. Pacold began studying the role of oxygen in cancer cells because they’re easy to grow and manipulate and because low oxygen levels can drive cancer progression. Some pancreatic and brain cancers not only survive but actually thrive in hypoxic conditions, he notes. “We did not go into this research planning to study a childhood neurodevelopmental disease or find a potential treatment for cancer of any sort. That emerged when we started looking into it, but the goal was always very simple: find something fundamental to biology.” To better understand the cellular role of oxygen, Robert Banh, PhD , a former postdoctoral researcher in Dr. Pacold’s lab and now an assistant professor of biochemistry and molecular pharmacology, used the isotope oxygen-18 to track how the element gets incorporated into molecules. Although some of the oxygen-labeled molecules were expected, roughly one-fourth were previously unknown in mammalian cells. One metabolite in particular, abbreviated 4-HMA, incorporated more of the labeled oxygen than any other molecule in the cell. The lab then identified the enzyme that makes it, called HPDL. Dr. Banh discovered that the oxygen-using enzyme is a critical catalyst for a previously undescribed metabolic pathway in mammals, which starts with the production of 4-HMA and ends with the synthesis of part of the powerful antioxidant (and popular supplement) coenzyme Q10. An Unexpected Disease Application At the same time, other research groups were puzzling over the first reports of pediatric patients carrying variants in the gene encoding the HPDL enzyme. These variants have been closely associated with a rare, progressive neurodevelopmental disorder marked by seizures, leg stiffness, rigid and abnormal body movements, and profound neurodevelopmental delay. To study the disease, two research groups created mice strains lacking the HPDL enzyme and observed similar neurodevelopmental abnormalities. Dr. Pacold’s team is now investigating if coenzyme Q10 can make up for missing or deficient HPDL and help treat this disorder. If the intervention proves effective in mice, Dr. Pacold hopes to collaborate with clinicians to evaluate whether a coenzyme Q10–based therapy can reduce symptoms in children with the disease. “When you delete the gene for HPDL, at least in a subset of pancreas cancers, the cancers basically fail to take off.” “Even if we’re able to only treat some of these patients with this nasty neurodevelopmental disease, I’d be very happy,” he says. Because doctors haven’t known to look for it until recently, he adds, the disease could be more prevalent than anyone has suspected. A Quest to Turn Off Cancer While one part of the research group is focusing on the neurodevelopmental disease application, another part is investigating how to turn off the HPDL enzyme. “When you delete the gene for HPDL, at least in a subset of pancreas cancers, the cancers basically fail to take off,” Dr. Pacold says. Although urging caution about whether the benefits seen in laboratory models of cancer could be replicated in humans, an initial screen suggests that some compounds can indeed inhibit the enzyme—potentially opening the door to a cancer treatment as well. “We all, I think, have this dream of being able to do something that moves the needle for patients,” Dr. Pacold says. “But we didn’t go into this research deliberately setting out to do this.” By understanding a biological process at a more fundamental level, though, the added knowledge of basic mechanisms could have far more implications for treating diseases than anyone imagined. “There may be a lot more to this story,” he says. Dr. Pacold has equity with Raze Therapeutics, has received grant funding from Novocure, and is a consultant for Leal Therapeutics and Promedigen. Michael E. Pacold, MD, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Radiation Oncology and director of basic science research for the department. New Strategies to Personalize IBD Treatment As co-director of the , is working to shed light on the predictors of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) progression using clinical and translational biomarkers, in order to personalize the care given to IBD patients. What drives the well-documented variation in quality of care for patients with IBD, including Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis? Dr. Hudesman: IBD impacts the gastrointestinal tract along with many other parts of the body including the joints and skin. Many people with IBD can have associated malnutrition, chronic pain, fatigue, and poor sleep quality that can negatively impact their quality of life. Yet, it is rare to receive the level of multidisciplinary care we can offer in a center like ours, which includes an IBD specialist, a nutritionist, and a psychologist; plus a rheumatologist and a dermatologist to manage extraintestinal symptoms; nurses and mid-level providers to help manage medications; and even a pharmacy team to navigate insurance considerations. Psychological care is critical. Anxiety and depression are common co-morbidities. A solo GI practice doesn’t necessarily have a psychologist, and many mental health providers don’t accept insurance. While our center provides behavioral therapy and treatment as part of the multidisciplinary model, this is not widely available. “By more fully understanding a patient’s IBD involvement, we can better engage specialists in leading those patients toward optimal outcomes.” How does your care model benefit hospitalized patients, in particular? Many patients with IBD do need to be admitted to the hospital—which can impact short- and long-term outcomes. The idea behind our own work in developing a dedicated, multidisciplinary inpatient IBD service is that including GI specialists, a colorectal surgeon, ostomy nurse, and an entire team specializing in IBD care can help improve outcomes for hospitalized patients. We have studied the impact of a dedicated inpatient IBD service. In one recent study, we assessed the impact of our dedicated IBD service on important quality measures such as Clostridiodes difficile stool testing, VTE [venous thromboembolism] prophylaxis administration, and opiate avoidance. In addition to finding statistically significant improvements in the inpatient measures, we identified improvements in post-discharge rates of ED visits and hospital readmissions. Forecasting Risk of Complications What other research is the center leading toward the goal of preventing, or at least reducing, hospitalizations? We’re working to stratify patients by risk factors and symptoms to predict their clinical course. Around a third of hospitalized patients with IBD require salvage therapy or surgery, and about 40 percent experience a longer length of stay. But we don’t have a method to predict whether admitted patients will experience adverse outcomes. We recently published a scoring index that can be used to assess which patients who present in the ED are at risk for complications. The hope is that this prognostic information can guide management of hospitalized patients with IBD. Treatment Beyond the GI Tract The center is also researching extraintestinal manifestations of IBD. What are those manifestations, and how does their treatment support care? Manifestations beyond the GI tract, which impact up to half of patients, can happen virtually anywhere—the joints, skin, eyes, liver, biliary tract, and lungs. Joint manifestations are most common, especially in Crohn’s disease, and tend to go undiagnosed until they present more severe symptoms such as back pain and joint damage. Certain treatment options have more systemic benefits, making them more efficacious if we can identify those patients who have both intestinal and extraintestinal symptoms. For example, we recently completed a study indicating that magnetic resonance enterography used to assess patients with Crohn’s disease can allow clinicians to evaluate for sacroiliitis —and potentially adapt treatment before this manifestation causes more significant problems. What promising future treatments are you investigating for IBD? We are working to further personalize treatment based on disease phenotype. For example, we’ve examined the characteristics of patients with IBD and concurrent psoriasis (PsO) or psoriatic arthritis (PsA)—all conditions characterized by dysregulation of the immune system. Evidence suggests that these conditions share a common genetic pathway, and that the presence of one increases the risk of developing another. Our study revealed that patients with IBD alone may have a less severe disease phenotype than those with IBD and PsO/PsA overlap, and that there may be an underlying genetic component behind that overlap. We expect such insights to help us customize treatment. By more fully understanding a patient’s IBD involvement, we can better engage specialists in leading those patients toward optimal outcomes. Calculator Predicts Risk of Early-Onset Colorectal Cancer A novel prediction model has the potential to identify individuals at differential relative and absolute risk for early-onset colorectal cancer (CRC), according to a Journal of the National Cancer Institute The model incorporates an environmental risk score (ERS), including 16 lifestyle and environmental factors, and a polygenic risk score (PRS) of 141 common variants. The combined score, a number between 0 and 1, may contribute towards identifying high-risk populations that may benefit from personalized preventive interventions for early-onset CRC. “Concerns including the burden on screening capacity and costs support that an individualized approach is increasingly warranted.” “As screening guidelines lower the recommended age of screening initiation for CRC, concerns including the burden on screening capacity and costs support that an individualized approach is increasingly warranted,” says study co-senior investigator , a professor of population health and environmental medicine. Constructing the Model The researchers used data from 13 population-based studies, which included 3,486 early-onset and 3,890 control cases under the age of 50 years, to construct the risk prediction models. Relative and absolute risks for early-onset CRC were evaluated according to the ERS and PRS. The team found that increasing values of ERS and PRS were associated with increasing relative risks for early-onset CRC (odds ratios, 1.14 and 1.59, respectively; area under the curve, 0.631). Based on absolute risks, 26 excess cases per 10,000 men and 21 per 10,000 women would be expected among those scoring at the 90th percentile for both risk scores. Leveraging the Insights “This study is the first to our knowledge to implement a risk score integrating lifestyle, environmental, and genetic factors in early-onset CRC, which complements similar efforts for cohorts consisting predominantly of late-onset disease,” Dr. Hayes says. While these findings are encouraging, Dr. Hayes cautions that his team’s tool is not yet ready for clinical use. Further testing is needed in larger trials to refine the model, and to demonstrate how the scoring system could be applied in clinical settings. “Our ultimate goal is to have a predictive test for all people.” “Our ultimate goal is to have a predictive test for all people to gauge when they, based on their own genetic and personal health factors, need to start routine screening for colorectal cancer.” Other researchers involved in the study are lead investigator Alexei Archambault at Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and NYU Langone co-investigators Anne Zeliniuch-Jacquotte, MD Funding support for the scoring study was provided by National Institutes of Health grants R03CA21577502, U01CA164930, R01CA201407, P30CA016087, P30CA015704, P20CA252728, and T32HS026120. Population Health, Environmental Medicine Richard B. Hayes, DDS, MPH, PhD, is a professor of population health and environmental medicine. His research focuses on cancer epidemiology, including the development of predictive algorithms for colorectal cancer screening. Urging Awareness of Paraneoplastic Syndromes Maria D. Guillermo Prieto Eibl, MD , an expert in neuroimmunology and neuro-oncology, specializes in the treatment of paraneoplastic syndromes, immune responses to cancer that impact the nervous system. While serious, treatments are available, and because symptoms can develop two to three years before the underlying malignancy manifests, some cases provide an opportunity for early detection though periodic cancer screening. Given their varied presentations, awareness is key to ensuring patients receive early treatment and prevent long-term disability from the attack on the nervous system. Here, Dr. Prieto, director of the neuro-oncology program at NYU Langone’s , discusses her framework for recognizing and treating these syndromes. She also shares her vision for applying neuroimmuno-oncology to advance treatments for challenging brain and spine tumors. No Textbook Case Reflecting on the many patients you have treated with paraneoplastic syndromes, what are the most common clinical features? Dr. Prieto: There’s certainly no textbook case. Patients present with a wide variety of symptoms including neuropsychiatric symptoms, seizures, rapid cognitive decline, and neuropathies. Autonomic dysfunction, such as orthostatic hypotension and gastric motility symptoms, are also common. Oftentimes symptoms are blamed on medications or age. Timely Intervention Is Critical What steps do you take for diagnosis and treatment when you suspect a patient has paraneoplastic syndrome? Antibody panels for blood and cerebrospinal fluid are promptly ordered to provide information on the prognosis and guide the potential best treatment. These tests can take up to two to three weeks to come back. If we wait for results, patients can deteriorate rather quickly, and the damage to the nervous system can be irreversible. Therefore, we treat upfront to prevent further damage. In most cases, time is of the essence. “Patients can deteriorate rather quickly, and the damage to the nervous system can be irreversible. In most cases, time is of the essence.” First, we give high-dose steroids. If steroids don’t work, then plasma exchange is performed to remove the antibodies. If the patient doesn’t respond to plasma exchange, intravenous immunoglobulin can be given. We escalate the treatment with other medications if the patient keeps deteriorating. Following a good response, maintenance treatment with anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies is provided to prevent the creation of new antibodies. Sometimes an underlying cancer—the root of the problem—is found at the time of initial presentation. While the person is treated for the paraneoplastic condition, treating the malignancy results in halting the progression of the neurological decline. Treat and Screen For patients with no detectable cancer, for whom paraneoplastic syndrome is the first sign of possible malignancy, what is your approach to treatment? If cancer is not detected upon initial presentation, we keep the patient on maintenance immunotherapy for about two years. This keeps the patient stable while we continue searching for the source. “A top goal for our program is to improve outcomes for patients with cancer that affect the central nervous system.” Young patients that have antibodies typically seen with paraneoplastic syndromes are less likely to have an underlying malignancy. Nevertheless, we still monitor closely. For example, in NMDA receptor antibody encephalitis, often linked with a benign ovarian teratoma, surgical resection of the tumor halts symptom progression and initiates a recovery process, most of the time with good success. Healing from neurological paraneoplastic syndromes can take months to years. Patience and early rehabilitation are fundamental. Complications of Immunotherapy You also see referrals for complications of immunotherapy that manifest as paraneoplastic syndrome or new onset of autoimmune disease but are not necessarily driven by cancer. Can you tell us about these cases? Certain cancer-directed immunotherapies, like checkpoint inhibitors, can trigger the production of antibodies that can cause a variety of autoimmune conditions. My colleagues often refer patients to my clinic who present with new neurological symptoms that lack a clear explanation, and we perform a meticulous evaluation to determine the optimal treatment. Checkpoint inhibitor autoimmune syndromes tend to have a great response to steroids, with the challenge that if steroids are required for a prolonged period, the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy can be reduced. Frequent communication among care teams is crucial for proper treatment planning. Neuroimmuno-Oncology: The Leading Edge What other conditions are you focusing on in the areas of neuroimmunology and neuro-oncology? A top goal for our program is to improve outcomes for patients with cancer that affect the central nervous system. While current cancer-directed immunotherapies have proven to successfully treat many cancers, these treatments are not very effective in primary brain tumors. I’m proud to be part of the amazing team at the , and with their support we are exploring different ways to target the immune system to treat glioblastoma and other brain tumors. Currently, our neuro-oncology program is participating on a large clinical trial offering a vaccine against glioblastoma cell components . Additional approaches to use the immune system in the treatment of these aggressive tumors will be available at NYU Langone in the near future. Maria D. Guillermo Prieto Eibl, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and neurology and interim director of the neuro-oncology program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. She specializes in the treatment of brain and spine tumors as well as complications that arise from cancer immunotherapy and the immune system’s response to cancer. Tying Teamwork to Outcomes in Skull Base Surgery J. Thomas Roland, Jr., MD, and John G. Golfinos, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff , previously served as president of the North American Skull Base Society (NASBS). In February 2022 at the society’s 31st annual meeting , Dr. Golfinos co-led a discussion on the critical importance of teamwork in skull base surgery with , chair of the Department of Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery. Here, Drs. Golfinos and Roland discuss some of the insights and experiences they shared at the annual meeting. Dr. Golfinos, as president of the NASBS, you’re tasked with determining the focus of the annual meeting. Why did you choose teamwork as a content area this year? Dr. Golfinos: Skull base surgery is uniquely challenging, so anything that makes it better and easier is a win. The goal is always the best possible outcomes for our patients. For nearly 30 years, Dr. Roland and I have collaborated for the sake of our patients, and we’ve seen that teamwork is more than a buzzword—it is a focused effort that has helped us consistently raise that bar. NASBS represents a diverse group of specialties—from neurosurgeons and ENT surgeons to oncologists, rhinologists, and head and neck specialists—so teamwork is a fitting topic to highlight. With so many specialists involved in skull base surgery, one might expect teamwork to “just happen” naturally. It does not. There are surgeons who approach things by themselves, only in certain ways, believing they don’t need anybody else. They may not grasp the value of a well-integrated team that communicates freely. Dr. Golfinos and I want to highlight how outcomes can be measurably improved when you prioritize teamwork. In our model, every member of the team is as important as another. “There are common guideposts fundamental to helping a team succeed—for example, that a team is only as strong as its weakest link.” Connecting Teamwork and Outcomes Can you share specific examples of the ways teamwork has contributed to better outcomes? Dr. Golfinos : It wasn’t long ago when a patient with a large acoustic neuroma might expect to live with hearing loss and facial paralysis. That’s rare these days, because our fields—neurosurgery and otolaryngology—have come together to solve these problems. We can offer solutions to improve hearing like cochlear implants and auditory brain stem implants. When you involve everyone from audiologists and nurses to anesthesiologists and neurology specialists, you can prevent hearing loss or facial nerve dysfunction. Dr. Roland : At NYU Langone Health, we’ve worked with the same scrub nurses and circulating nurses for nearly 20 years. We have superb physiologic monitoring capacity for real-time feedback during surgery. That seamlessness is important—otherwise, an operation will take twice as long. They know what we need. And, in a conscious fashion, we’ve empowered them to speak up and say, “Why aren’t you using this? Doctor, there might be an issue. Or, are you going to use this?” This is not always how it is done. One of our former NYU Langone Health fellows recently brought her team from another institution to watch us perform a pediatric brain stem implant, because she wanted them to observe how we implement teamwork to carefully orchestrate the necessary sequence of events. How has technology made teamwork easier? : Certainly, the ability to constantly communicate and see things digitally allows us to plan more readily. We can instantly see the anatomy we’re working with and rehearse the approach. The days are gone when someone would have to carry large films from my office to Dr. Roland’s office for an hour-long meeting. Now we collaborate digitally on surgical planning. That level of communication between a neurosurgeon and a neurotologist couldn’t have happened before. In the operating room, we have machine learning that can tell us histologically whether something is cancerous right away, which facilitates more real-time team planning. Advanced monitoring is another input allowing the team to determine how to rescue the nerves held hostage by a given tumor. Sharing Lessons With Peers What will be some of your key messages for the annual meeting? : We’ll present several scenarios that illustrate the concept of team. And, we plan to bring in a very compelling speaker from outside the world of medicine. Whether in surgery or other high-pressure fields like the military, there are common guideposts fundamental to helping a team succeed—for example, that a team is only as strong as its weakest link. And, when you combine unique talents, you end up with greater talent than the sum of each individual. Another is that everyone must leave their ego at the door and keep their mind open to feedback. “An effective team will rehearse every aspect of a surgery to determine pacing—like a special ops mission.” : An effective team will rehearse every aspect of a surgery to determine pacing—like a special ops mission. And, again, it’s important to empower everyone on the team, from scrub nurses to monitoring staff. Everyone must be free to speak up if something doesn’t seem right. Those have been important aspects of our work in building a top skull base surgery program. We hope they will encourage other surgical teams to collaborate toward better outcomes. Fewer Brain Metastases After Stopping Systemic Therapy Metastases Incidence in NSCLC Post-Therapy In a study of metastases incidence in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) post-therapy, median time to new brain metastases off systemic therapy was 16 months, and no additional new tumors were found 22 months after patients stopped therapy. ADAPTED FROM: Neurooncol Adv 2021;3(Suppl 3):iii22. The probability of developing an additional new tumor after 6 months was 26 percent, after 12 months was 40 percent, and after 18 months was 53 percent. ADAPTED FROM: Patients with mutations in RAS or RTK pathways (e.g., KRAS and EGFR) were more likely to develop new tumors. Patients who discontinued therapy due to intolerance or progression of the disease were also more likely to develop new tumors. ADAPTED FROM: A recent study conducted at NYU Langone Health, , has revealed that the rate of new brain metastases from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients off systemic therapy decreases over time and is uncommon two years after discontinuation of systemic cancer therapy. In addition, the researchers found that patients who had RAS or receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) pathway mutations or who stopped treatment due to adverse events had a higher rate of developing new metastases. The findings surprised the research team, led by Dennis London, MD , a resident in neurosurgery at NYU Langone. “Patients who discontinued therapy due to a treatment response had a median time to new brain metastases of 16 months—much longer than we expected,” says Dr. London. He further explained that these data suggest that the RAS pathway is an aggressive driver of brain metastases in NSCLC, but additional studies with larger sample sizes will be needed to validate this hypothesis. Based on these findings, Dr. London recommended that oncologists use caution when choosing to discontinue therapy in patients with RAS pathway mutations. “These data are very encouraging for lung cancer patients with brain metastases,” Dr. London explains. “Achieving long-term neurological control of brain metastases is possible after treatment with new systemic therapies.” “This is the first study to report the incidence of new brain tumors for patients who can stop their cancer therapy,” says , a professor of neurosurgery and radiation oncology. “The good news is that for some patients, over years of assessment, new brain tumors were uncommon.” Dennis London, MD, is a neurosurgery resident. His research interests include understanding the function of neural circuitry in action planning and decision-making and applying this knowledge to the treatment of neurologic diseases through neuromodulation; stereotactic and functional neurosurgery; neuro-oncology; and data science. Modified Oberlin Treats an Infant’s Erb’s Palsy L-R: Surgeon’s view of a large neuroma in the neck of an infant; surgeon’s view while identifying nerves in the patient’s arm; surgeon’s view of nerves in the patient’s arm after transfer. A Rare, Yet Catastrophic Injury A pediatric patient with Erb’s palsy experienced a remarkable recovery after specialists at NYU Langone Health teamed up to perform early microsurgical reconstruction and intensive occupational therapy. The patient first presented to the pediatric orthopedic hand surgery clinic at for evaluation of her right upper extremity by Andrew E. Price, MD , attending surgeons on the case. “Brachial plexus birth injuries require a team of highly specialized experts, including surgeons and occupational therapists,” says Dr. Price. “After birth, these injuries are usually treated conservatively using custom splints, electrical stimulation, and occupational therapy—we’re one of the few centers capable of doing all three.” “These injuries are usually treated conservatively using custom splints, electrical stimulation, and occupational therapy—we’re one of the few centers capable of doing all three.” Despite conservative management, the patient failed to regain biceps function at 6 months of age. The best treatment was determined to be brachial plexus neurolysis with double fascicular nerve transfer. Dr. Price, Dr. Hacquebord, and their team also injected botulinum toxin into several antagonist muscle groups during the procedure to improve shoulder and elbow motion. “The prognosis of Erb’s palsy depends on several factors including the extent of the injury, size and severity of the post-ganglion tears, speed of recovery, and quality of initial treatment,” says pediatric occupational therapist Lori B. Ragni, MS, OTR/L . “While surgical repair is not always needed, in the right setting it will enable better functional outcomes, especially when combined with occupational therapy.” “While surgical repair is not always needed, in the right setting it will enable better functional outcomes, especially when combined with occupational therapy.” Upon discharge, the patient continued outpatient rehabilitation with . Two years after surgery, the patient is doing extremely well, with sustained improvements in several clinical and functional outcomes. Preoperative Diagnosis: Injury of Right Brachial Plexus Surgeon’s view of a large neuroma in the neck of an infant. The patient’s right upper extremity was held with shoulder internally rotated, elbow extended, wrist flexed, and forearm pronated. She demonstrated excellent triceps strength but had no biceps function. Moreover, she did not exhibit shoulder elevation or active wrist extension. The patient was referred for occupational therapy and splinting, with surgery ultimately deemed necessary. A Successful Surgery Surgeon’s view while identifying nerves in the patient’s arm. Upon exploration of the right brachial plexus, the C6 nerve was found to have significant scarring and lack of stimulus conduction. There was contractility of the deltoid with stimulation at 2 mA of C5 proximally, but no contractility with stimulation of C6. The team proceeded with the procedure that included neurolysis of the brachial plexus and double fascicular nerve transfer. Long-Term Outpatient Rehabilitation Surgeon’s view of nerves in the patient’s arm after transfer. At 2-year follow-up, the patient demonstrated significant improvement. She had regained shoulder elevation to above 130 degrees, full passive shoulder external rotation, negative clarion, active elbow flexion, supination to 10 degrees, no elbow flexion contracture, and some active extension of the wrist. Orthopedic Surgery, Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Andrew E. Price, MD, is a clinical professor of orthopedic surgery. His research and clinical interests include brachial plexus birth injuries, neuromuscular conditions, and pediatric trauma. Pediatric Occupational Therapy Lori B. Ragni, MS, OTR/L, is supervisor of pediatric occupational therapy at Rusk Rehabilitation. Her research and clinical interests include brachial plexus birth injuries, outcomes research, aquatic therapy, and the use of modified constraint-induced movement therapy. Needle Arthroscopy Excels in Carpal Pathology Surgeon’s view using a need arthroscope (top row) versus a conventional arthroscope (bottom row) for evaluation of carpal pathology. A study of 20 patients led by NYU Langone Health researchers affirms that needle arthroscopy matches the diagnostic accuracy of conventional wrist arthroscopy. The study was presented at a recent meeting of the American Society for Surgery of the Hand. “There was never a case where we couldn’t see everything we needed to see, which was a surprising finding,” says orthopedic surgeon and study lead author Nader Paksima, DO, MPH . “I thought that was going to be one of the limitations of the needle scope when we first started out the study.” Although the image quality of the smaller scope is marginally lower, Dr. Paksima says it still provides full diagnostic capabilities. “Once you get used to it, and our study proves it, you can see everything that you can see with the big camera. We didn’t miss anything with the needle scope,” he says. “Once you get used to it, you can see everything that you can see with the big camera. We didn’t miss anything with the needle scope.” The smaller scope, in fact, provides better access to the mid-carpal joint and better visualization of the scapho-trapezium-trapezoid and carpometacarpal joints. “Cartilage damage to the mid-carpal joint is minimized by the needle scope because it’s much smaller and much easier to insert than the standard arthroscope,” he adds. Setting Up a Comparison Since the 1980s, surgeons have used a 2.7-mm wrist arthroscope to evaluate, diagnose, and treat a range of carpal pathologies, especially ligament and cartilage injuries not easily seen on X-ray. Wrist arthroscopy offers direct visualization of the joint surface, articular cartilage, ligaments, and any inflammation such as synovitis. The newer 1.9-mm needle arthroscope with a flexible tip provides an even less invasive option, yet until this study, it had not been specifically assessed for its carpal pathology evaluation and diagnostic capabilities as compared to conventional arthroscopy. For the new study, Dr. Paksima and colleagues at NYU Langone’s used the needle arthroscope to evaluate each patient for synovitis, cartilage damage, and integrity of the volar, scapholunate, and lunotriquetral ligaments, as well as the triangular fibrocartilage complex. After completing a survey regarding the visualization and diagnosis, the surgeons performed a conventional wrist arthroscopy, followed by a second survey to compare the two techniques. As part of the evaluation, they also compared how well the scopes visualized ten landmarks within the wrist joint. A Less Invasive Alternative Because the bigger camera on the 2.7-mm scope provides a somewhat larger and better picture, switching to the smaller camera requires an adjustment period, Dr. Paksima says. The typical 30-degree angled view afforded by a standard arthroscope allows surgeons to rotate the camera and see a relatively large surface area. By contrast, the needle scope provides an end-on view, akin to looking through a telescope. The needle scope’s flexible tip, however, allows for easy manipulation of the camera to widen the field of view and the surgeons reported no difference in the ease of use. “It works very well, and it’s reliable; in the future, I imagine doing the needle scope in a less invasive setting like an office or a procedure room.” “I was concerned that with an end-on view, I wouldn’t be able to look around the corner within joints,” Dr. Paksima says. “What we found in our study was that we were able to see everything, even with a needle scope, and that may have to do with the flexibility of the tip because it can bend around things.” Based on the encouraging results, Dr. Paksima has switched to using the needle arthroscope on its own for patients who present with carpal pathologies. “What’s exciting is that it works very well, and it’s reliable; in the future, I imagine doing the needle scope in a less invasive setting like an office or a procedure room,” he says. For a ligament sprain, for example, he could take a look under local anesthetic, make a diagnosis, and provide treatment—all in the same setting. “I’m not doing that yet, but that’s what I’m working toward,” he says. Hand and Wrist Surgery Nader Paksima, DO, MPH, is a clinical professor of orthopedic surgery. He specializes in hand and wrist surgery and in researching nerve injuries and wrist fractures. Treating the Most Complex Airways Cases Scott Rickert, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff , is chief of the Division of Pediatric Otolaryngology and a co-director of the . Also an associate professor of otolaryngology, pediatrics, and plastic surgery, his subspecialty interests include conditions affecting the pediatric airway, voice, and swallowing. Dr. Rickert was recently elected president of the Aerodigestive Society , a multidisciplinary group committed to advancing research, clinical care, and public health for patients with complex aerodigestive disease. Here, he discusses emerging topics in diagnosis and treatment, and the rewards and challenges of treating children with highly complex cases. The Aerodigestive Center treats patients with a combination of multiple and interrelated airway conditions. As an otolaryngologist, what drew you to treating these complex pediatric cases? Dr. Rickert: I came to pediatric otolaryngology prepared to be involved in all procedures but became focused on the aerodigestive kids because they’re some of the patients that need the most help. They are often undertreated and kept at their baseline without comprehensive care. They’re also among the most interesting patients to me. A lot of these kids have chronic conditions, so you have long-lasting relationships with them. We see many of our patients become young adults. Helping them thrive not only impacts their lives, but it has a big impact on their families and their families’ lives. Coordinating Complex Care Aerodigestive care is, by definition, a multispecialty model. What are some of the benefits and challenges of this in day-to-day medical practice? Aerodigestive cases require close coordination. Some of these patients are just airway patients and some are primarily GI. The multiple areas of concern allow for cross-pollination of ideas and collaboration. Eighty percent of these patients have need for a speech or voice therapist, so it’s a great benefit to have that perspective. Our team holds weekly care meetings in the ENT office, where all our equipment is located. Despite a potential financial challenge to maintaining a central location—how can you have four doctors in one place when you could have them in different offices?—when you evaluate the model and all the care these patients get, it’s actually quite efficient to have all the doctors together. And it’s better for the kids and their families. Learning from Other Programs You’ve just been elected president of the Aerodigestive Society. What are some of your objectives for that group? The society started out about 10 years ago to integrate all the different programs in the United States for sharing information, conducting multi-institutional research, and establishing care guidelines. “I’ve been trying to encourage everyone around the country to promote multidisciplinary care at their institutions, and if that’s not possible, to look to their community or to others across the country who can support them.” As president, I’ve been trying to encourage everyone around the country to promote multidisciplinary care at their institutions, and if that’s not possible, to look to their community or to others across the country who can support them. For instance, one hospital may not have pediatric GI, but they may collaborate with another hospital in their area that does. We have a great perspective on how to build a team here in New York with our large volume, but it’s interesting to see how people in Cincinnati, or Argentina, are modeling aerodigestive care. Always, when you have complex cases, it’s helpful to talk with other people who treat similar cases to see whether their approaches are different or better. COVID-19 has had many implications for patients who need complex care . We’ve been trying to keep aerodigestive care in the forefront. Imaging Airway Dynamics Are there any new equipment or therapeutic innovations on the horizon? We’ve already been using cutting-edge imaging to understand what’s going on in the lungs and video swallow tests to confirm what a speech/language pathologist is seeing. Today, we are doing sleep endoscopies because a lot of these kids have sleep and breathing problems. It’s a new, innovative technique to understand what their airway does when they’re sleeping. We are developing simulation software to understand flow dynamics in the airway, not only in breathing, but also swallowing. Plus, we are creating 3D models of the airway using 3D printing. This allows us to plan out a surgery virtually so when we’re doing it in real life, we can be more efficient. We’re in the planning stages of some studies to better understand cough. And of course, we’re always striving to innovate care in prescribing medicines for those kids who have chronic issues. Rewards of Collaboration What would you say to get a medical trainee interested in this field? It’s a wonderful place to be because of the collaborative nature of the work. We’re sharing all the time. If you want to be involved, whether you’re a pulmonologist, a GI specialist, or an ENT, there’s a small dynamic group that’s always looking forward. Not only does this impact your patients, but anything that’s being done locally impacts kids across the country. This is what you go into medicine for—to make a difference in people’s lives! Reprogramming Stem Cells to Overcome Bone Loss Single-cell RNA sequencing of young and aged mouse hindlimbs points to an abnormal increase in Notch signaling in skeletal stem cells as playing a central role in age-related bone loss, according to a recent report in Bone Research Findings from the study suggest that interfering with the signaling pathway by targeting a protein called Ebf3/EBF3 has therapeutic potential in preserving skeletal integrity and preventing deterioration. “Our findings reveal that Notch in skeletal stem cells becomes abnormal with age and that blocking it prevents age-related skeletal degeneration.” “Our findings reveal that Notch in skeletal stem cells becomes abnormal with age and that blocking it prevents age-related skeletal degeneration,” says senior study author , an orthopedic surgeon at NYU Langone Health. The Bone-to-Fat Shift Bone is among the tissues that keep self-renewing pools of stem cells, called skeletal stem and progenitor cells (SSCPs), on hand into adulthood. SSCPs can mature into replacement cells that maintain healthy tissue and heal broken bones, with maturation following one of two paths: new bone-making cells called osteoblasts or fat-making cells called adipocytes. Past studies have shown a notable, gradual shift in the fate of SSCPs during aging. Instead of becoming osteoblasts, there is a tendency toward differentiation into adipocytes as SSCPs age. This alteration in cell fate leads to several consequences, including bone loss and increased adipose tissue within the bone marrow. Consequently, bones become weaker and more vulnerable to fractures. “The reprogramming of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people has profound therapeutic potential.” Currently, there are no therapeutics to rescue or maintain the bone-making function in aging SSPCs. Clarifying the mechanisms that trigger the bone-to-fat shift may serve to “prolong healthspan, preserve skeletal integrity, and enhance the efficiency of fracture healing in the aging population,” write the study authors. Notch Activity and Stem Cell Fate As reported in the new study, increased Notch pathway activity appears to shift SSCPs toward the fate that increases fatty degeneration of bone marrow. When the authors genetically engineered mice to lack Nicastrin, a core part of the Notch signaling pathway, SCCPs were redirected toward differentiation into osteoclasts, increasing bone formation “even beyond that of young mice,” write the authors. Other effects included a specific increase in trabecular bone formation, reduction in bone marrow adiposity, and enhanced regeneration, which the authors posit could curtail skeletal degeneration. Identifying a Potential Therapeutic Target Notably, Notch signaling, woven as it is into so many cellular pathways, is not a good target for drug therapy, Dr. Leucht stresses. Instead, his team identified Ebf3 as a promising potential therapeutic target, confirming that the transcription factor carries the Notch signal forward and is relatively restricted to being made in skeletal stem cells. “The reprogramming of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people has profound therapeutic potential. In future studies we hope to confirm the value of Ebf3 as a drug target in preventing osteoporosis,” says Dr. Leucht. Notch signaling is important to the development of many tissues in the womb but is then suppressed to enable healthy adult tissue function, Dr. Leucht adds. Diseases like cancer—and the aging process—are linked to the abnormal reactivation of developmental processes, where the genetic systems (heterochromatin) that block access to certain genes break down. Thus, the current study’s finding that Notch-related genes were abnormally upregulated could reveal disease mechanisms behind forms of deterioration seen in other tissues and organs. CBD Improves Pain and Satisfaction After Rotator Cuff Repair To study pain management, 99 patients participated in a trial evaluating buccal absorption of cannabidiol (CBD) for pain control following shoulder arthroscopy. Patients in the experimental group received CBD tablets 3 times a day for 14 days. Patients in the control group received placebo tablets, as well as 5/325 mg oxycodone/acetaminophen to be taken as needed, with instructions to eliminate as soon as possible. After rotator cuff repair, patients receiving CBD reported significant improvements compared to those receiving placebo. On postoperative day 1, patients receiving CBD reported better pain control levels, and on postoperative days 1 and 2 reported higher satisfaction with pain management. Patients receiving CBD outperformed placebo at all postoperative time points for pain and satisfaction, although not statistically significant, and no significant differences in opioid consumption were observed between the two groups. Using the visual analog scale for pain scores, on day 1, patients receiving placebo scored 5.7, whereas patients receiving 25 mg or 50 mg CBD scored 5.1 and 3.9, respectively. On day 2, patients receiving placebo scored 5.3, whereas patients receiving 25 mg or 50 mg CBD both scored 4.7. On day 14, patients receiving placebo scored 2.3, whereas patients receiving 25 mg or 50 mg CBD scored 2.0 and 1.1, respectively. Cannabidiol (CBD) significantly improves pain control and patient satisfaction in the immediate postoperative period after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, according to a recent study in The American Journal of Sports Medicine . Led by investigators at NYU Langone Health, the research also offers preliminary evidence that higher CBD doses may yield better outcomes. “CBD could be a powerful adjunct in postoperative care for patients with significant pain,” says , an associate professor of orthopedic surgery and co-director of the Sports Medicine Fellowship Program . Dr. Alaia is first author on the clinical study—one of the very first of its kind. “This allows patients to have alternative treatments for pain management after something as painful as a rotator cuff surgery.” “This allows patients to have alternative treatments for pain management after something as painful as a rotator cuff surgery,” says study co-author , a professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of the Division of Sports Medicine. “It’s all about trying to figure out how we can manage pain in a complete way.” Participants in the double-blind trial were randomly assigned to receive oral tablets containing 25 or 50 mg of CBD (based on their body weight) taken three times a day for 14 days, or placebos that were identical in taste and appearance. All study participants also received oxycodone/acetaminophen to take if needed. Pain, as assessed by the visual analog scale, was significantly lower in patients receiving CBD than in those taking the placebo on postoperative day one. Moreover, satisfaction with pain control was significantly higher among those receiving CBD on postoperative days one and two. Opioid consumption remained low in both groups, the study found. When broken down by subgroup, patients receiving 50 mg of CBD reported even lower pain scores and higher satisfaction than those receiving 25 mg, a finding that the group is investigating in follow-up studies. “Surgeons and other physicians need to start at least considering cannabidiol as part of a multimodal pain management scheme.” A companion study found no negative impact of the CBD on the patients’ ability to heal after their rotator cuff repairs. A separate analysis of sports medicine orthopedic providers’ perceptions, though, revealed the need for more education on the effectiveness, potential applications, and safety profile of CBD. To better understand the drug’s potential effect in alleviating chronic pain, the researchers are now conducting a randomized, controlled trial of 50 mg of CBD on roughly 100 patients with moderate knee osteoarthritis. “Surgeons and other physicians need to start at least considering cannabidiol as part of a multimodal pain management scheme,” Dr. Alaia says. Disclosures: Dr. Alaia receives research support from Orcosa, Inc. He receives consulting fees for Depuy Mitek, JRF Ortho, Bodycad, and Arthrex. Dr. Jazrawi receives research support from Arthrex, Smith and Nephew and Depuy Mitek. He is on the medical advisory board for Lazurite. Michael J. Alaia, MD, is an associate professor of orthopedic surgery and the co-director of the Sports Medicine Fellowship Program. He specializes in sports medicine, joint preservation, and complex arthroscopic and open reconstruction of the knee and shoulder. Ergonomic Factors in Endoscopy: Addressing the Training Gap Renee L. Williams, MD. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Many endoscopists suffer work-related musculoskeletal injuries, beginning as early as fellowship training . To highlight this issue and prevent injuries that can interfere with an endoscopists’ career, a core curriculum for endoscopy ergonomics was recently published by the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE). Renee L. Williams, MD , a co-author of the new curriculum and member of the ASGE training committee, says that weaving an awareness of ergonomic practices into early career training is key to their successful adoption and the development of injury-preventing muscle memory. “It’s important to let trainees know that endoscopy-related injuries are relatively common, and they can affect your ability in the future to continue doing procedures,” Dr. Williams says. “I always tell trainees, ‘If your hand is hurting after doing a few procedures, you may be doing something wrong and you need to change your technique.’” “It’s important to let trainees know that endoscopy-related injuries are relatively common, and they can affect your ability in the future to continue doing procedures.” Ergonomic Tips and Tricks Many of the skills or devices outlined in the new curriculum relate to making the workspace ergonomically sound. Dr. Williams stresses that monitors, which are commonly fixed to the wall, should ideally be adjustable so that users of varying heights can achieve a neutral body posture and reduce strain on their neck. In addition, cushioned floor mats are recommended to decrease strain while standing during procedures. Proper endoscopy technique is also a focus of the curriculum, including the “cigar-rolling” approach, which relies on the thumb and fingers to steer the endoscope rather than the wrist. “Use of a cigar-rolling technique to achieve torque is preferred as opposed to a fist grip, which can cause excessive angulation of the wrist joints,” wrote the authors.  “It’s not so much about speed,” Dr. Williams adds. “It’s about technique and making sure that you’re performing the procedure in a way that you’re not hurting yourself.” A newer tool—the angulation dial adapter—is recommended to better accommodate smaller hand sizes. “There are more female gastroenterologists on the horizon, and they may have smaller hands and maybe different heights,” Dr. Williams says. “You need to adapt this instrument, cause it’s not a one-size-fits-all.” The authors also point to the importance of support from institutional leadership to integrate ergonomics training and best practices system-wide to ensure their ultimate success. Making it a Habit With curriculum development being a main focus of the ASGE training committee, Dr. Williams says the group is always considering emerging topics that will be important to the next generation of endoscopists, including ergonomics. “I’ve known colleagues who have had minor injuries, where they just have some pain. But I’ve also had a few colleagues have surgery based on work-related injuries,” Dr. Williams says. For this reason, many endoscopists, including Dr. Williams, have own-occupation disability insurance based on their ability to perform endoscopy. Physicians should consult with the appropriate advisors to determine whether a similar policy would benefit their practice. When teaching fellows, Dr. Williams says she may pause to demonstrate or correct proper ergonomic techniques and encourages other mentors to do the same. “While discussing the theory behind ergonomic technique and showing illustrations in lecture format is important, it should really be incorporated into everyday teaching,” she says. “While discussing the theory behind ergonomic technique and showing illustrations in lecture format is important, it should really be incorporated into everyday teaching” Gastroenterology, Endoscopy Renee L. Williams, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Medicine, where she serves as associate chair for health equity and Director of the Saul J. Farber, MD, Program in Health Equity. Within gastroenterology, her interests include health disparities in colorectal cancer screening and medical education. Steering Precision Radiation Oncology into a New Era of Collaboration In pursuit of a shared vision for precision cancer treatment, researchers harness innovation in imaging and radiotherapy. Presenters at the 2023 ASCO Annual Meeting Our oncologists join international colleagues in Chicago, June 2–6. Drug Combination May Skirt Venetoclax Resistance Preclinical studies reveal mitophagy to be a key mechanism of BH3 mimetic resistance, marking a new target in AML. Presenters at the 2023 AACR Annual Meeting Our cancer experts joined international colleagues in Orlando, Florida, April 14–19. Multinerve Transfer Technique Improves Facial Reanimation Illustration depicting four possible nerve connections utilized in the new multigraft facial reanimation approach. IMAGE: Andrew Lee, MD, artist. A Multiplex Approach to Facial Reanimation For patients with partial or total facial paralysis, surgeons at NYU Langone Health have developed a new approach to facial reanimation. The approach connects distal branches of the facial nerve to multiple local and regional nerves to improve segmented movement. Traditionally, either the main trunk or a single division of the facial nerve is attached to a single nerve for reanimation, which can result in mass movement (synkinesis). This oversimplified approach does not account for the way the facial nerve divides and segments across five distinct facial areas, says Adam S. Jacobson, MD , chief of the Division of Head and Neck Surgery. “To me, it never made sense to graft the main facial nerve together and expect it to perform the same way, with signals reaching their rightful places.” Jacobson and colleagues including , chief of microsurgery, and , director of the Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center, developed the multigraft technique to offer surgeons a more consistent, nuanced approach to facial reanimation. Says Dr. Levine, “We’re giving multiple inputs to the damaged nerves, so over time they start sequentially taking over and giving different levels of control to the segments of the face.” “Our technique offers an immediate solution rather than a wait-and-see approach.” Each harvested nerve is selected based upon the needs of each facial region, Dr. Levine adds. “For example, the ansa cervicalis offers tone to the vocal chords, so we’re using it in the eyes—an area where we wanted tone. For the midface division, we needed power, and looked to the masseteric nerve.” The new technique reduces mass facial movements which can have life-altering effects for patients. “Our technique offers an immediate solution rather than a wait-and-see approach or the traditional facial reanimation approach,” Dr. Jacobson says. “The sooner a nerve transfer surgery is performed, the better the functional outcomes.” Enhanced Segmented Movement via Multiple Grafts A patient demonstrating left facial paralysis. A new approach to facial reanimation developed by surgeons at NYU Langone Health connects distal branches of the facial nerve to multiple local and regional nerves. The technique is applicable for patients with abnormal nerve growth, such as those with Bell’s palsy, or patients with nerve loss whether due to a degenerative condition or prior surgery. Here, a patient demonstrates left facial paralysis possibly due to a genicular ganglion hemangioma. Up to Four Distinct Nerve Connections The masseteric nerve is connected to the distal end of the midface division. The lower division of the facial nerve is connected to the hypoglossal nerve to animate the lower face. The ansa cervicalis is connected to the upper division of the face to give tone to the eye muscles. A cross-face nerve graft may be used to innervate the affected midface with input from the intact contralateral midface division. Rapid Functional Improvement Surgeon’s view during a nerve graft procedure. The nuanced reconstruction technique requires muscular transfer or transplant and takes longer than traditional facial reanimation techniques as each nerve is transferred and carefully grafted. However, surgeons have not observed significantly longer patient recovery times, with most patients experiencing some functional recovery 3–12 months after surgery. Facial Reanimation with Less Synkinesis A patient demonstrating segmented movement following multigraft facial reanimation to address left facial paralysis. Patients benefit from facial reinnervation that enables specialized movement, with less synkinesis than traditional single-graft techniques. Here, the patient who experienced left facial paralysis demonstrates segmented movement made possible by the multigraft technique. Follow-up photos were taken two years post-surgery. Head & Neck Surgery, Surgical Oncology Adam S. Jacobson, MD, is an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery, chief of the Division of Head and Neck Surgery, and co-director of the Head and Neck Center. Plastic Surgery, Microsurgery Jamie P. Levine, MD, is an associate professor of plastic surgery and Chief of Microsurgery. His research and clinical interests include facial reconstructive surgery, mammaplasty, bloodless surgery, and abdominoplasty. Sentinel Node Biopsy: Lessening Surgical Burden in Oral Cancer Treatment Babak Givi, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Sentinel node biopsy offers a less invasive alternative to cervical lymphadenectomy, or neck dissection, in oral cavity cancers. More traditional resection of tongue and other oral cavity tumors, which involves removing all surrounding lymph nodes, is often unnecessary in early stage disease and can carry complications such as nerve injury, fibrosis, and scarring. “We’ve known that as many as 70 to 80 percent of patients don’t need to have their lymph nodes removed, but because those other 20 to 30 percent of patients have very poor outcomes, it’s done out of an abundance of caution,” explains , a surgical oncologist specializing in head and neck cancers. Dr. Givi is the trial site principal investigator at NYU Langone Health for a multi-institutional randomized controlled trial examining the long-term cure rate of sentinel node biopsy compared to neck dissection. “We don’t need to take out 20 or 30 lymph nodes if removing the one or two at highest risk delivers the same information.” “My hope is that as we follow these patients, safety and effectiveness data will be convincing, so the minimal approach can be routinely adopted,” explains Dr. Givi. “We don’t need to take out 20 or 30 lymph nodes if removing the one or two at highest risk delivers the same information.” Advanced Imaging Key to Targeting Treatment Patients with early-stage tumors are first evaluated by PET scan to ensure there is no identifiable disease in the neck or beyond. If the paitent is cleared, the surgeon injects an advanced lymphocyte radiotracer designed to track lymph nodes around the tumor. Using high-precision three-dimensional (3D) single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) imaging, Elcin Zan, MD , a specialist in neuroradiology, follows the path of the tracer to the lymph nodes. She then fuses the CT images with nuclear medicine scans to provide a clear visualization of the most at-risk nodes. In the operating room, the surgeon removes the primary oral tumor, then uses a gamma counter to navigate precisely toward at-risk nodes. Only those nodes showing tracer activity are removed and examined. If the selected nodes show no evidence of metastasis, and no others show evidence of tracer uptake, the procedure concludes. Patients can return home the same day with only a tiny incision. “The sentinel node approach carries less surgical risk and our imaging is highly precise—eliminating the need to examine more lymph nodes or treat the nodes with radiotherapy.” Alec E. Vaezi, MD, PhD “The sentinel node approach carries less surgical risk and our imaging is highly precise—eliminating the need to examine more lymph nodes or treat the nodes with radiotherapy out of caution,” explains , chief of head and neck surgery at and a member of the multidisciplinary team who perform the procedures. In addition to reducing treatment burden, the newer method’s precision offers insights about the interaction between oral tumors and lymph nodes. By revealing the metastatic pathways of certain tumors, the dynamic imaging demonstrates common patterns of oral cancers. “It’s become clear, for example, that tongue tumors rarely reach nodes beyond the upper neck area—yet we used to remove these nodes routinely,” notes Dr. Givi. Expanding Adoption: Research and Education The national study that Dr. Givi is helping to lead will follow indicators of long-term functional outcomes, such as fibrosis and muscle weakness near the surgical area, to confirm the benefits of sentinel node biopsy. Along with disease-free survival as a co-primary endpoint, the data will reveal whether the approach enables informed decision-making to spare some patients from the potential complications of elective node dissection. In addition to his ongoing research, Dr. Givi hopes his recent appointment as vice chair of education for the American Head and Neck Society will be a platform to help increase awareness about sentinel node biopsy. “Only a small number of eligible patients are offered this approach,” concludes Dr. Givi. “If more surgeons see how precise it is, and the positive outcomes it can deliver, more patients can benefit from it.” Babak Givi, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. He is a surgical oncologist specializing in head and neck cancers, and his research emphasizes quality of care and outcome of treatments. Alec E. Vaezi, MD, PhD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery and chief of head and neck surgery at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. He specializes in minimally invasive approaches for patients with oral and other head and neck cancers. Corralling T Cells Inside Tumors Boosts Efficacy of Immunotherapy in Melanoma Immune T cells (purple) excluded from skin tumors, or melanoma (white), leak out through lymphatic vessels (green). Antigen-specific CD8 T cell accumulation in tumors is crucial for effective immunotherapy. Data indicate that lymphatic vessels and their transport function may impede this process under some conditions. Yet the mechanisms by which lymphatic vessels affect CD8 effector T cell function within the tumor microenvironment (TME) are not well characterized. Nature Immunology , a team led by NYU Langone Health and researchers clarified key aspects of these interactions in melanoma. The scientists also found a way to keep CD8 T cells from exiting cutaneous tumors—and showed that doing so in conjunction with immune checkpoint blockade could significantly decrease tumor growth. “Our work shows that preventing T cell egress can boost the efficacy of immunotherapy against melanoma.” Amanda W. Lund, PhD “Our work shows that preventing T cell egress can boost the efficacy of immunotherapy against melanoma,” says senior investigator , an associate professor of dermatology and pathology. Maria Steele, PhD, a former postdoctoral fellow in the , served as study lead investigator. Pinpointing the Role of Lymphatic Transport Previous research has shown that CD8 T cells (among other types) can migrate out of tumors into lymphatic vessels. In addition, an earlier study by Dr. Lund and colleagues demonstrated that adoptive T cell therapy for melanoma is enhanced in mice engineered to lack dermal lymphatic vessels compared to wild-type controls. Such findings led Dr. Lund and her research team to hypothesize that functional lymphatic vessels may limit the efficacy of tumor-specific CD8 T cells by facilitating their exit from the TME. In their new study, the researchers sought to understand how this escape route operated and how it might be interrupted. The team began by tracking transferred antigen-specific CD8 T cells in vivo in the absence of dermal lymphatic vessels. These cells equally infiltrated melanoma tumors in both lymphatic-deficient and wild-type mice. By day 7 after transfer, however, more T cells had accumulated in lymphatic-deficient tumors, even though their proliferation was lower. These data confirmed that lymphatic transport decreases the retention of therapeutic T cells. Blocking an Escape Signal To determine how retention could be increased, the team investigated chemokine pathways whose surface expression was regulated in concert with intratumoral activation and progressive dysfunction. They found that the chemokine CXCL12 and its receptor protein CXCR4 attract CD8 T cells toward the tumor periphery, limiting their target engagement and encouraging their escape into lymphatic vessels. When the researchers blocked this signaling pathway using the CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100, T cells no longer migrated to the periphery. And with continuous administration of the drug, their numbers within the TME doubled. These changes suggested that blocking the CXCR4 pathway would also prime the TME for response to immunotherapy. To test the therapeutic impact of AMD3100 in the context of immune checkpoint blockade, the team administered the drug both with and without an anti–PD-L1 inhibitor to mice with established melanoma tumors. Alone, the CXCR4 antagonist did not have statistically significant effects. In combination with the immune checkpoint inhibitor, however, it arrested growth in approximately half of the tumors. Immunotherapy alone had previously failed to stop the cancer’s proliferation. “These results suggest that it is not only about getting T cells into the melanoma tumor, but also about getting them to the right place with the right signals to drive the most specific and durable immune responses,” says Dr. Lund. In future research, the team will investigate other molecular pathways in lymphatic vessels to increase the “dwell time” of CD8 T cells within tumors. Dr. Lund is a paid consultant for AGS Therapeutics, a biopharmaceutical company that was not involved in the study. Dermatology, Pathology, Cancer Biology Amanda W. Lund, PhD, is an associate professor in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology and the Department of Pathology. Her research centers on the role of the lymphatic vasculature in regulating cutaneous tumor immunity, with the ultimate goal of enhancing cancer immunotherapy. Sparking a Metabolic Crisis to Shrink Pancreatic Tumors With $1.7 million in funding from a Drug Discovery Award from The Mark Foundation for Cancer Research, investigator , and a colleague at the University of British Columbia are seeking to identify a first-in-class small molecule inhibitor of the amino acid transporter SLC38A2/SNAT2 as a potential treatment for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). “The profound effects that we see when we target this alanine transporter in pancreatic tumors in mice are extremely encouraging and are a major step forward to credentialing SLC38A2 as a potential target in this deadly disease,” says Dr. Kimmelman, the Anita Steckler and Joseph Steckler Chair of the and senior advisor to the dean for cancer strategy and operations at NYU Langone Health. “The profound effects that we see when we target this alanine transporter in pancreatic tumors in mice are extremely encouraging.” One of the deadliest forms of cancer, PDAC has a five-year survival rate of approximately 10 percent . Most patients present with tumors that are unresectable, and standard-of-care chemotherapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors offer minimal improvements. “Therapeutic options for patients with pancreatic cancer remain severely limited, and any novel targets warrant significant study,” Dr. Kimmelman says. Building on Previous Discoveries An internationally recognized leader in the cancer metabolism field, Dr. Kimmelman has identified several novel metabolic pathways in PDAC. He shares The Mark Foundation award with Seth Parker, PhD, an assistant professor of biochemistry and molecular biology at the University of British Columbia and a former postdoctoral researcher in Dr. Kimmelman’s NYU Langone lab. The investigative trail that led to their current collaboration began with a study Dr. Kimmelman and his team published in 2016 in . In that work, the researchers found that in the nutrient-poor environment of the stroma, pancreatic cancer cells signal pancreatic stellate cells to secrete non-essential amino acids, including alanine. The cancer then uses alanine as a fuel source in place of glucose In a subsequent study, published in 2020 in Cancer Discovery , Dr. Parker led a team of researchers in Dr. Kimmelman’s lab who found that pancreatic cancer cells use SLC38A2/SNAT2 to take up alanine from their microenvironment. The researchers showed that genetically targeting the transporter created a metabolic crisis in cultures of pancreatic tumor cells, impeding their growth. The group also demonstrated that targeting SLC38A2/SNAT2 in animal models, using genetic tools such as CRISPR, shrinks pancreatic tumors. “It has been an exciting journey from our first observations that pancreatic cancer cells can use fuel from neighboring cells in these nutrient-poor tumors to, more recently, identifying the key molecular mechanisms of how this nutrient sharing occurs,” Dr. Kimmelman says. An Ambitious Goal In the new study, Dr. Kimmelman and Dr. Parker and their colleagues will develop a cell-based SLC38A2 uptake assay and screen a large chemical library. Confirmed hits will be subjected to medicinal chemistry review, further validation, and extensive profiling for in vitro and in vivo activity, specificity, and selectivity in PDAC cells and tumors. Identified leads will serve as chemical scaffolds for future medicinal chemistry–led optimization. In addition to The Mark Foundation grant, the project is supported by funds from Technology Opportunities and Ventures , the technology commercialization arm of NYU Langone. “This generous influx of support,” says Dr. Kimmelman, “enables us to pursue our ultimate goal—to bring a compound forward for the clinical development of a treatment for pancreatic cancer.” Dr. Kimmelman has financial interests in Vescor Therapeutics and is an inventor on patents pertaining to KRAS-regulated metabolic pathways and redox control pathways in pancreatic cancer, targeting GOT1 as a therapeutic approach, targeting alanine transport, and the autophagic control of iron metabolism. He is on the scientific advisory board of Rafael/Cornerstone Pharmaceuticals and OncoRev and has been a consultant for Deciphena and Abbvie. Predicting Dysphagia After Elective Spine Surgery Matina Balou, PhD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Physicians and speech-language pathologists in NYU Langone’s Voice Center are participating in multiple studies aimed at determining the elusive causes and mechanisms of dysphagia and finding improved methods for predicting and diagnosing the disorder. one-year pilot study —a multidisciplinary collaboration with the , and the Department of Communicative Sciences and Disorders at NYU Steinhardt—is investigating long-term dysphagia and dysphonia in patients who have anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) spine surgery. A particular challenge to understanding the prevalence and pathophysiology of dysphagia post-ACDF is distinguishing a short-term impairment caused by post-surgical edema from a more serious long-term iatrogenic injury to the swallowing nerves and muscles at risk during the surgery, says Matina Balou, PhD , a clinical assistant professor of otolaryngology-head neck surgery. Expected Edema vs. Atypical Swallowing Postsurgical edema alone typically resolves in the first few months, Dr. Balou says. Patients who are still experiencing dysphagia after that time are referred to speech-language pathology for a swallow evaluation. “Currently, by the time patients come to us with symptoms, they have already suffered for several months,” says Dr. Balou. “If we can identify an algorithm that would let surgeons know a patient is high-risk for long-term problems, we could recognize what’s happening and intervene at patients’ first complaint—potentially restoring their quality of life sooner.” After reviewing approximately 2,000 articles, the researchers found that nearly half of studies that described the problem of dysphagia after ACDF utilized the Bazaz scale, a simple, two-question, patient-reported measure. “If we can identify an algorithm that would let surgeons know a patient is high-risk for long-term problems, we could recognize what’s happening and intervene at patients’ first complaint—potentially restoring their quality of life sooner.” “This is a multifactorial problem that demands more than a yes/no analysis,” says Dr. Balou. “Most patients say they have swallowing issues post-surgery, but it doesn’t necessarily translate into weakness or destruction.” Identifying Predictive Measures Working with a group of neurosurgeons led by Anthony K. Frempong-Boadu, MD , co-director of the Spine Center, the pilot study will follow 20 patients through their ACDF surgery and recovery. Participants are examined through two visits at the Voice Center—six weeks pre-ACDF and six weeks post-ACDF—with the research team conducting three primary evaluations: a videofluoroscopic swallow study (VFSS), measures of pharyngeal edema using an acoustic pharyngometer, and an acoustic voice sample. Additionally, the researchers administer pre-and post-surgery questionnaires. “We are one of the only centers that has the videofluoroscopy equipment on site, which makes it easier for patients to participate in our research,” Dr. Balou notes. Of seven participants who have currently completed their surgeries, three have had to enroll in swallowing therapy pre-op to improve safety and efficacy. The team hopes to determine whether acoustic pharyngometer and voice sample can be validated as accurate noninvasive measures of edema, data that will pave the way toward a future multicenter research study. An additional goal is to describe the physiology of swallowing post-ACDF, uncovering data that could predict which patients might experience long-term impairment. Expanding Dysphagia Evaluation Voice Center researchers are also using videofluoroscopy, high-resolution manometry, and other advanced imaging to establish predictive measures for dysphagia caused by conditions such as stroke, pulmonary disease, head and neck cancer, spinal cord injury, and aging. Dr. Balou describes a portfolio of ongoing studies. One study seeks to determine if swallowing problems can be predicted in the ENT office setting using findings on flexible laryngoscopy prior to gold standard VFSS/endoscopic swallow evaluation. A separate longitudinal study is evaluating dysphagia in pulmonary patients with non-tuberculous mycobacteria. Another observational study has reviewed phenotypes of the epiglottis to collect classification data for creating a dysphagia prediction system. “It’s difficult to tease apart which part of the throat is not doing what it’s supposed to do,” Dr. Balou says. “The truth is that we do multiple swallowing evaluations every day and prescribe exercises that work. What we are lacking is treatment studies—there’s a gap in the literature. But we are improving patients, I see it every day.” Matina Balou, PhD, is an assistant clinical professor of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery and rehabilitation medicine. The focus of her clinical work and research is on understanding, preventing, and treating dysphagia. National Funding Drives Innovation in Rheumatology Research An early-career investigator discusses the impact of receiving one of the NIH’s most prestigious grants. Protecting Lupus Patients from Severe COVID-19 New research shows importance of boosters to maintain protection against COVID-19 in patients with SLE. Amping Up the Search for Better Therapeutics in Autoimmune Diseases NYU Langone co-leads major public–private partnership to clarify pathways in autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Assessing Splenic Nerve Stimulation for Rheumatoid Arthritis An implanted pacemaker-like device could quell overactive lymphocytes and reduce symptoms. Striving for a More Complete View of Lupus Patients Adding patient-reported outcomes and health equity data to major lupus registry could aid new care strategies. Does Mental Health Contribute to Psoriatic Arthritis Outcomes? Research probes if patients with mental health stressors could require unique interventions. Presenters at the 2022 ACR Annual Convergence Meeting This November, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American College of Rheumatology’s 2022 Annual Convergence Meeting in Philadelphia. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year (see a full listing of NYU Langone presenters here Saturday, November 12 Dual (and Dueling) Fibroblast Differentiation Is Integral to the Pathogenesis of Anti-Ro Mediated Congenital Heart Block and Provides a Novel Biomarker of Severity : Pediatric Rheumatology – Basic Science Poster Jill Buyon, MD , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Robert Clancy; Christina Firl; Nicola Fraser; Mala Masson; and Amit Saxena, MD , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 1–3 p.m. Sunday, November 13 Postoperative Flares and Peri-arthroscopic Management of Immunosuppressive Medications in Patients with Rheumatic Disease : Orthopedics, Low Back Pain, and Rehabilitation Poster : Amanda Avila; Laith Jazrawi, MD , Professor, Department of Orthopedic Surgery; Charles Lin; David Marulanda; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Dhruv Shankar; and Kinjal Vasvada, NYU Langone : 9–10:30 a.m. Thrombocytopenia and Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia in Antiphospholipid Antibody-positive Patients: Descriptive Analysis of the AntiPhospholipid Syndrome Alliance for Clinical Trials and InternatiOnal Networking (APS ACTION) Clinical Database and Repository : Antiphospholipid Syndrome Poster H. Michael Belmont, MD , Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 10–10:05 a.m. Contribution of Antibody Titers/Specificities to Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes in a Multicenter Prospective Study of anti-Ro Positive Mothers : Reproductive Issues in Rheumatic Disorders Poster , Professor, Department of Medicine; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Philip Carlucci; Robert Clancy; Nicola Fraser; , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Peter Izmirly, MD , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; , Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology; Fardina Malik, MD , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Mala Masson; Julie Nusbaum, MD Christina Penfield, MD , Assistant Professor, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology; Colin Phoon, MD , Professor, Department of Pediatrics; Paula Rackoff, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Ashley Roman, MD , Silverman Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology; , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; and Bruce Solitar, MD , Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone Prevalence of Secondary Connective Tissue Diseases and Autoantibodies Among Racial and Ethnic Groups in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Patients in the Manhattan Lupus Surveillance Program : SLE – Diagnosis, Manifestations, and Outcomes Poster II: Manifestations : Brendan Denvir; Philip Carlucci; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Kelly Corbitt, DO , Rheumatology Fellow; and Monday, November 14 In Utero Exposure to Hydroxychloroquine Does Not Associate with Ocular Toxicity as Assessed by Optical Coherence Tomography Five Years After Birth : Abstracts: Reproductive Issues in Rheumatic Disorders , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; and Mala Masson, NYU Langone 11:15–11:25 a.m. Lupus Clinical Flares in Patients with Gut Pathobiont Blooms Share a Novel Peripheral Blood Transcriptomic Immune Activation Profile : SLE – Diagnosis, Manifestations, and Outcomes III: Genetic Factors Gregg Silverman, MD , Mamdouha S. Bobst Professor of Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : Doua Azzouz; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Macintosh Cornwell; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Mala Masson; Kelly Ruggles, PhD , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; and , NYU Langone : 3:15–3:25 p.m. COVID-19 Infections, Morbidity, and Seroreactivity in SLE Patients Following Initial Vaccination Series and Additional Dose Through the New York City Omicron BA.1 Wave : SLE – Diagnosis, Manifestations, and Outcomes Poster III: Outcomes : Brittany Banbury; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Robert Clancy; Alexis Engel; Nicola Fraser, , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Ghadeer Hasan; Gary Ho, MD , Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Jammie Law; Mala Masson; Jose Scher, MD , Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine; Chung-E Tseng, MD , Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Devyn Zaminski, NYU Langone Long-term Use of Voclosporin in Patients with Class V Lupus Nephritis: Results from the AURORA 2 Continuation Study : SLE – Treatment Poster I : 1:25–1:30 p.m. Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte Ratio Among Flaring and Non-flaring Uncontrolled Gout Patients Undergoing Pegloticase Therapy as Part of the Phase 3 Pivotal Trials : Metabolic and Crystal Arthropathies – Basic and Clinical Science Michael Pillinger, MD , Professor, Department of Medicine Effects of Short Chain Fatty Acid Supplementation in Modulation of Gut Microbiome and T-Regulatory Cells in Health and New Onset Rheumatoid Arthritis : RA – Treatment Poster IV Rebecca Blank, MD, PhD , Instructor, Department of Medicine; Sydney Catron; Anthony Jimenez Hernandez; , Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine; Zakwan Uddin, NYU Langone Time: 1–3 p.m. Developing an Affordable, Smart Navigation System for the Visually Impaired John-Ross Rizzo, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff For the world’s 39 million blind and 246 million low-vision individuals, impaired navigational ability negatively impacts income, physical and mental health, and quality of life. Advanced wearables can provide assistance superior to the traditional white cane, but many are prohibitively expensive. In addition, adapting devices for indoor use typically requires infrastructure—such as Wi-Fi or visual light communication (VLC) transmitters—that may be scarce in low- and middle-income countries. Rusk Rehabilitation researchers at NYU Langone Health, in concert with partners in Thailand, are developing a platform designed to overcome these obstacles. Known as VIS ION (Visually Impaired Smart Service System for Spatial Intelligence and Onboard Navigation), the platform consists of an on-person navigational and computing functional aid paired with microservices through the cloud. The team, led by John-Ross Rizzo, MD , recently received funding from the NIH’s National Eye Institute and Fogarty International Center to begin testing the system at Ratchasuda College, a school for disabled students affiliated with Mahidol University in Bangkok. Linking Inexpensive Hardware to Next-Generation Tech The VIS ION platform provides real-time situational and obstacle awareness via a backpack fitted with five main components: 1) distance, ranging, and image sensors; 2) an embedded microcomputer; 3) a haptic interface via waist strap; 4) a headset with binaural bone conduction speakers and a noise-cancelling microphone; and 5) a GPS module. “Unlike some other digital navigational aids for the visually impaired, ours does not need expensive 3D Lidar sensors or infrastructural beacons,” Dr. Rizzo explains. Instead, the platform leverages stereo cameras as its sensing foundation. Using 3D semantic mapping and localization technology, the system registers images to a database of maps recorded at centimeter scale. The wearer receives information through audible messages and vibrotactile prompts. In areas with Wi-Fi or cellular service, the localization network utilizes cloud computing. When no connection is available, however, the system can operate fully on-board. “Unlike some other digital navigation aids for the visually impaired, ours does not need expensive 3D Lidar sensors or infrastructural beacons.” Another cost-saving feature is the platform’s use of images acquired via Google and through citizen science. Volunteers can record their wayfinding with mobile phones, uploading images and GPS coordinates to the mapping database. Participants in trials of VIS ION will also help populate the database during navigation. Refining the System in a Global Setting In the first phase of the NIH-funded study, the researchers will implement semantic segmentation and image-query-based localization networks on the Ratchusada campus. They will deploy the augmented platform with visually impaired students, and assess for acceptability, appropriateness, and feasibility. Pending success, the team will progress to the second phase—further enhancing the platform over an extended period, and selecting an additional urban area in Bangkok for generalizability testing. “We anticipate a production cost of about half that for available systems.” “Although initial costs of VIS ION may be high, we anticipate a production cost of about half that for available systems,” Dr. Rizzo says. “We’re using an approach that leverages input from study participants for improved function and usability, aimed at ultimately benefitting visually impaired persons worldwide.” John-Ross Rizzo, MD, is the Ilse Melamid Associate Professor and vice chair of Equity and Innovation, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, and an associate professor of neurology. His research interests center on the development of assistive technology for the visually impaired as well as eye-hand coordination after stroke and brain injury. Presenters at World Cornea Congress VIII and AAO 2022 This fall in Chicago, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the World Cornea Congress VIII, September 28–29, directly followed by the American Academy of Ophthalmology Annual Meeting, September 30–October 3. View World Cornea Congress program schedule view AAO conference information and abstract titles , Chair, Department of Ophthalmology, is Past President of the Cornea Society and served as one of this year’s three program directors. Below are notable sessions from both conferences featuring our faculty and trainees. World Cornea Congress Wednesday, September 28 How to Image the Opaque Pediatric Cornea Christina Prescott, MD, PhD , Associate Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Location: W193 Thursday, September 29 Spotlight: Fuchs Dystrophy Moderator: , Elisabeth J. Cohen, M.D. Professor of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Location: W190 Pediatric Corneal Transplantation Real World Experience: Cornea Findings in Patients Undergoing Treatment with Belantamab Mafodotin Presenting Author: Rebecca McGee, MD , Postgraduate Year 3 Resident, Department of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Co-Authors: Ilyse Haberman, MD , Assistant Professor; Douglas Lazzaro, MD AAO 2022 Friday, September 30–Monday, October 3 Clinical Outcomes from Symptomatic Horseshoe Retinal Tears Following Laser Retinopexy Co-Author: , Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Session: PO416 MicroShunt vs. Trabeculectomy Complete Success Rates by Target IOP: Two-Year Outcomes of a Randomized, Multicenter Study Joseph Panarelli, MD Session: PO162 Which Endothelial Keratoplasty Should I Choose? Ask The Expert: Session: ASK10V Lupus Study Will Offer Unique View of Patients’ Overall Health How do comorbidities and disparities in overall health cluster among different subsets of patients living with lupus? Through a new five-year project funded by the CDC, NYU Langone Health researchers will address this question by examining a variety of clinical and nonclinical factors within the health system’s highly diverse patient cohort, SAMPLE Harnessing Epidemiology to Advance Lupus Treatment and Health , or HEALTH, study will offer a unique perspective due to the collaboration of NYU Langone rheumatologists and population health experts. “Are there other things going hand in hand with lupus as comorbid conditions that no one’s really looked at?” asks Heather T. Gold, PhD , a professor of population health, who will partner with rheumatology researchers including Jill P. Buyon, MD , on the study. Dr. Gold, who lives with lupus herself, says her personal experience as a patient of over 25 years will inform her work. “I have some insights that I think rheumatologists who don’t have lupus themselves could never imagine.” “I have some insights that I think rheumatologists who don’t have lupus themselves could never imagine.” The study will also measure the burden of lupus on patients’ quality of life, and develop and evaluate a home-based strategy to identify early lupus nephritis in high-risk patients. “These research ideas start with seeing patients and listening to what they have to say,” says Dr. Izmirly. “The home monitoring idea, for instance, is a way to empower them to help manage their own disease.” A Broader View of Lupus As part of the first aim to study frequency and prevalence of lupus and non-lupus comorbidities, the researchers will use electronic health record information as well as hospitalization and emergency use data from New York’s Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System . Including data on social and structural determinants of health will help clarify nonclinical associations affecting patients’ health and healthcare utilization. The study’s second aim will assess patient-reported outcomes related to pain, anxiety, depression, fatigue, sleep disturbances, and other factors in combination with disease activity, and social determinants of health. The collaborators have piloted a set of questions that they are administering twice a year to patients with lupus, including versions translated into Mandarin and Spanish. “If we could get a handle, for the first time, on some of the molecular signatures that might relate to fatigue and pain in lupus… I think that would be pretty exciting.” “Clinically, patients may have phenotypes based on blood work and other tests, but that doesn’t measure the patient experience at all,” Dr. Gold says. “Someone might feel really lousy, but their blood work looks normal.” In addition to supporting the goals of improving clinical management of lupus and co-management of related health conditions, the study will gather novel molecular data to determine whether any biomarkers map to patterns uncovered by the quality-of-life analysis. “If we could get a handle, for the first time, on some of the molecular signatures that might relate to fatigue and pain in lupus that go beyond traditional markers, I think that would be pretty exciting,” Dr. Buyon says. Empowering Patients Through At-Home Testing For the study’s third aim, the researchers are assessing a home-based urine testing protocol for patients at high risk of lupus nephritis. “We always worry about kidney disease in patients with lupus, and many times they aren’t aware that they have it until they have really swollen legs or other complications,” Dr. Izmirly says. The home-based option may also reduce the burden on patients who would otherwise need to make frequent lab visits. “Our goal is to identify a way for patients to help detect kidney disease earlier and, hopefully in the long term, improve outcomes.” An initial pilot project will involve 20 high-risk patients who are instructed how to use urine dipsticks at home to measure their protein levels. “The patients will be sent a training video on how to do the home urinalysis,” Dr. Izmirly says. “Once a week, they’ll get a text message prompting them to do one and send us the results.” Abnormal test results will prompt a more formal laboratory analysis. “Our goal is to identify a way for patients to help detect kidney disease earlier and, hopefully in the long term, improve outcomes,” he says. Jill P. Buyon, MD, is the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, director of the Division of Rheumatology, co-director of the Colton Center for Autoimmunity, and director of the Lupus Center. Her research and clinical work focus on lupus, lupus-like conditions, pre-lupus, and Sjogren’s syndrome. Heather T. Gold, PhD, is a professor of population health. Her research focuses on socioeconomic, racial and ethnic, geographic, and clinical determinants of health and economic outcomes. Peter M. Izmirly, MD, is a professor of medicine and a member of the Division of Rheumatology. His clinical and research interests include the epidemiology of lupus and related autoimmune diseases, lupus nephritis, and neonatal lupus. An Expanding View of Behçet’s Disease NYU Langone Health’s internationally known has forged strong collaborations with researchers in the Middle East, Japan, France, and elsewhere to help understand, diagnose, and treat the condition. The center’s leader, Johannes Nowatzky, MD , the Saul J. Farber Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology and director of the Behçet’s Disease and Ocular Rheumatology Programs in the , also recently secured two R01 grants from the NIH to support new investigations into the mechanisms underlying this relatively rare but life-altering disease. Here, Dr. Nowatzky discusses his goals in expanding the program’s reach. A Hub for Expertise and Innovation What makes the Behçet’s Disease Center so unique? Dr. Nowatzky: We are building a truly comprehensive program with notable expansions across our three clinical, research, and educational components. In the clinical area, I have many years of experience with the disease in the Middle East, where it is most common. I’ve also recruited some of the very best rheumatologists, who can really think deeply about a patient referred with Behçet’s disease, or labeled as having it, and revise a diagnosis if necessary. This label is, many times, incorrect. My laboratory supports the research part of the center. We conduct both basic and translational research. We have two R01 grants focused on Behçet’s disease—that’s quite unique because the NIH hadn’t previously awarded those types of grants for Behçet’s research in more than three decades. On the teaching side, we train at all levels from fellows to continuing medical education. Much of the Behçet’s disease training that is directed to clinicians is traditionally considered to be in the rheumatology domain. However, conventional rheumatology training does not cover many of the skills needed to diagnostically deal with Behçet’s disease and the conditions that mimic it. For instance, developing a differential diagnosis of mucosal lesions or of subtle ocular findings that help determine whether a certain form of uveitis makes or breaks a Behçet’s disease diagnosis. Where do you see the program further expanding? One priority in the clinical sector is diagnostic accuracy and precision. That is a huge problem in Behçet’s disease because it doesn’t have seromarkers or other biomarkers, and no truly pathognomonic findings. There is a serious overdiagnosis in the United States, which has to do mostly with the understandable lack of familiarity of many providers with this rare disorder. At the same time, critically ill patients with Behçet’s disease sometimes do not get diagnosed, which can have serious consequences. Here, our consult service can help. We see patients who have been labeled as having Behçet’s disease by their referring providers. When sending these patients to us, doctors need to state a reason for the consult. In more than 80% of cases, it is uncertainty regarding the accuracy of a Behçet’s disease diagnosis. The other important direction of expansion is understanding disease mechanisms. Understanding the biology of this complex polygenic disease with its many different clinical phenotypes is a difficult, slow, and expensive process, but the clinical and scientific rewards are high. There simply is no real long-term progress without it. I feel privileged to finally have a real shot at doing this through the funding we secured recently, our combined clinical and scientific expertise in immunology, and our network of collaborators around the globe. A New View of Immune Changes How is your research clarifying the disease biology? One of our R01 grants, Unraveling the role of HLA-B*51/ERAP1 in Behçet’s eye disease , deals with the disease directly. What has become clearer from our work over the last few years is that in a subset of patients with Behçet’s disease who carry not only HLA-B*51 but a haplotype that we study, ERAP1 Hap10, the disease is not just an HLA-B*51–associated disease. It may also be an HLA-B*51–restricted disease or an HLA class I–restricted disease. “What has become clearer from our work over the last few years is that in a subset of patients with Behçet’s disease who carry not only HLA-B*51 but a haplotype that we study, ERAP1 Hap10, the disease is not just an HLA-B*51–associated disease. It may also be an HLA-B*51–restricted disease.” What this means is there is likely a true mechanism here that alters presentation of peptides to CD8 T cells via HLA-B*51—or perhaps changes the interaction with other cells, such as natural killer cells. We recently published data that there is a change in the immune response if you genetically alter activity of ERAP1 in an HLA-B*51 restriction context. We also showed that the alterations in the immune phenotypes with this kind of genotype fall into the CD8 T cell compartment, and that there are changes in the frequency of CD8 T cells that have seen antigen versus those that have not. These findings have implications for how we view this disease immunologically and how we may want to design treatments. We have targets now such as ERAP1 for which there are already compounds that can alter the activity of this enzyme, as well as other strategies. Mapping Connections with Uveitis What about your second major line of research? The second R01 grant, Modulation of immunodominance in HLA class I associated uveitides , is delving into certain types of uveitis that have HLA class I associations but look profoundly different clinically, such as Behçet’s uveitis and HLA-B27-associated acute anterior uveitis. HLA class I/ERAP1 epistasis has relevance to other, more common diseases. In the context of Behçet’s disease with ERAP1 Hap10, for instance, when you also carry HLA-B*51, it increases the risk for Behçet’s disease to a level we have never seen before. That same enzyme haplotype or allotype, ERAP1 Hap10, actually protects from HLA-B27–associated ankylosing spondylitis and acute anterior uveitis. We’re trying to figure out how this inverse relationship works. On a public health level, this is important because psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis and acute interior uveitis are much more common than Behçet’s disease. If you identify mechanisms in the same pathway that are relevant to all of those diseases, it may be much easier to profit in the Behçet’s disease area from downstream clinical trials and pharmacological research testing new compounds for the treatment of those other diseases. Johannes Nowatzky, MD, is the Saul J. Farber Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology and director of the Behçet’s Disease Center and the Ocular Rheumatology Program. Raman Spectroscopy Aids Detection of Lung Cancers Current techniques for evaluating small bronchoscopic biopsies on-site are resource intensive and may compromise the integrity of samples for later analysis. , an assistant professor of medicine and cardiothoracic surgery, is working to incorporate stimulated Raman histology (SRH) microscopy, a novel optical imaging modality, into clinical workflows as a means of facilitating real-time tissue assessment. Invenio Imaging , Dr. Bessich and colleagues are evaluating the feasibility and utility of SRH microscopy in assessing small bronchoscopic biopsy specimens “The beauty of SRH is that it renders tissue reusable, allowing thoracic pathologists to conduct additional studies with the sample.” “We want to be able to analyze lung tissue intraoperatively without losing the sample for downstream analysis,” says Dr. Bessich. “The beauty of SRH is that it renders tissue reusable, allowing thoracic pathologists to conduct additional studies with the sample.” Putting the Tech to the Test Raman spectroscopy is a common nondestructive imaging technique with several biosensing applications. Investigators at NYU Langone are also applying the approach to improve brain tumor diagnosis The application of this technology to intraprocedural diagnosis has many potential benefits, including reduced procedure time, decreased total biopsies, and improved yield, and could allow for intraprocedural therapeutics to be applied, especially in cases of peripheral nodules. “Before our study, the use of SRH was not assesed in lung biopsies,” says Dr. Bessich. “We wanted to know if this technology could enhance the role of the pulmonologist or thoracic pathologist in the diagnosis or characterization of primary lung cancers.” Dr. Bessich and colleagues imaged specimens using SRH in the procedure room and then submitted them to pathology for fixation and sectioning. After collection, they created a training set of 50 cases from bronchoscopic and surgical lung biopsies. Subsequently, a thoracic pathologist used this training set to interpret the SRH images, referenced against a surgical pathology hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) image with the final diagnosis. In a prospective validation, the researchers acquired SRH images from 19 cases. “The samples were imaged sequentially, first with SRH, followed by conventional H&E microscopy,” explains Dr. Bessich. “The 19 prospective cases included a wide range of diagnoses and sample types common in clinical practice, including 6 benign cases and 13 lung malignancies. The thoracic pathologist evaluated each of the 19 SRH case images and provided a diagnosis.” Promising Results For the presence of diagnostic, neoplastic tissue, there was strong case accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity, says Dr. Bessich. Furthermore, almost all of the images were considered adequate for diagnosis and downstream analysis. “These results are a testament to the expertise of the thoracic pathologist who is trained to interpret SRH images, confirming that they have high fidelity for what was observed in the actual specimen,” says Dr. Bessich. “Importantly, however, these data are based on a very small number of cases, and future studies need to be conducted to assess the feasibility of the system on a larger scale.” While the application of this technology to intraprocedural diagnosis is promising, Dr. Bessich and her team believe that clinical use of SRH microscopy could also aid in the selection and prompt delivery of therapy for patients. “In the clinic, we’re often waiting for weeks to receive molecular results from tissue,” says Dr. Bessich. “If we could obtain these results in real time, we could initiate appropriate therapy sooner.” Uncovering the Biological Basis of Intergenerational Trauma Can trauma be inherited? Research says yes—but until now, less was understood about the mechanism of intergenerational trauma and its impact on specific neuropsychiatric outcomes. New and ongoing studies led by NYU Langone Health neuroscientist Moriah E. Thomason, PhD , are untangling how various biological and environmental factors characterize typical and atypical neurodevelopmental trajectories in children. “We know that trauma can be transmitted intergenerationally. The question is, does this happen even before birth?” “We know that trauma can be transmitted intergenerationally, from parents who experienced maltreatment in childhood to their own children,” explains Dr. Thomason. “The question is, does this happen biologically, even before birth, and if so, what does that actually look like in the brain’s circuitry?” Mapping Trauma’s Roots, Before Birth Building on earlier research using resting-state functional MRI (fMRI) to create a blueprint of fetal brain connectivity, Dr. Thomason studied the fetal amygdala–cortical function —critical to the regulation of emotion and fear—in scans of 89 healthy pregnant women between the late second trimester and birth. The women were primarily from households with low resources and socioeconomic status, who themselves had relatively high childhood maltreatment as measured by the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire. “Earlier studies have found an association between mothers who reported emotional neglect during childhood and infants with stronger connectivity between the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex,” Dr. Thomason explains. “We sought to eliminate the potential influences of the postnatal environment by examining these brain regions before birth, when biological influences contribute maximally to our measures.” A positive coupling was found between the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex and premotor areas of the developing brains scanned in utero, confirming an association between the mothers’ experiences of childhood maltreatment and the circuitry of their babies’ brains before birth. Further, higher amygdala connectivity between the amygdala and the left prefrontal cortex was observed in fetuses of mothers who experienced greater childhood trauma. Brain Differences: Biological Adaptation? It is well understood that positive amygdala–prefrontal cortex connectivity is associated with higher threat sensitivity and anxiety disorders in children and adults; in this pattern, healthy response regulation is interrupted by irregularities in the limbic circuitry. Through longitudinal studies, Dr. Thomason and her team will probe whether sensitization of that circuitry beginning in utero leads to lasting developmental and neuropsychological differences. “We can’t assume this change in the pattern of association between these brain regions is necessarily a disadvantage.” “Biology is evolutionarily intelligent,” she explains. “It may be that we are born with brains adapted and optimized for the environment we grow into. We can’t assume this change in the pattern of association between these brain regions is necessarily a disadvantage.” With increased understanding of the role of both genetics and environment on inherited trauma–associated outcomes, researchers hope to pinpoint the interrelationship between those developmental inputs and specific neuropsychiatric outcomes—and target early interventions accordingly. Pooling Data to Mitigate Generational Trauma NYU Langone is one of 25 sites involved in the HEALthy Brain and Child Development Study national consortium following pregnant women and children from birth through early childhood, to observe the impact of various biological and environmental exposures on behavior and development. With a five-year grant from the NIH, Dr. Thomason and colleagues from the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry will contribute to the most comprehensive dataset to date on early development based on biospecimens, brain imaging, patient-reported history, and other inputs. Data collected will enable researchers to analyze the factors that contribute to children’s brain development, and identify exposures to trauma, substance use, and other environmental influences that may either increase their risk of problems or increase their capacity for resilience. “We are only just beginning to understand the breadth of neurodevelopmental consequences stemming from trauma in all its forms,” says Dr. Thomason. “From micronutrients in developing teeth to toxins in urine, we are uncovering biological clues to lead us toward interventions that can help mitigate the negative effects of intergenerational trauma.” Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Population Health Moriah E. Thomason, PhD, is the Barakett Associate Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, vice chair for research in the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, and program director of the Neurodevelopmental Early Childhood Research Program. Her research focuses on how social and environmental factors impact early human neurodevelopment. Mitigating the Developmental Impact of Poverty at Pediatric Checkups Preventive health is a mainstay of modern pediatrics, yet preventive strategies targeting early child development and school readiness—essential to overall health outcomes—can be underutilized, particularly in children who face adversity. New strategies developed by Alan L. Mendelsohn, MD Erin M. Roby, PhD , together with colleagues at NYU Langone Health and its , are helping parents build skills in reading aloud and play that support early child development and school readiness, while helping physicians and researchers identify families at risk for disparities. “Early relational health greatly impacts resilience. Our work aims to mitigate the developmental impact of poverty and racism with preventive interventions.” “We know that early relational health—how children engage with parents and other caregivers—greatly impacts resilience,” notes Dr. Mendelsohn. “Our work aims to mitigate the developmental impact of poverty, racism, and trauma by equipping parents and care providers to implement preventive interventions.” An estimated two in five children in the United States live in low-income households, says Dr. Roby; half of these children lack the skills needed for learning when they enter school, she adds. These poverty-related achievement gaps begin in infancy, widening over time in the absence of intervention. Cognitive stimulation and parent–child interactions—including talking, teaching, playing, and reading—are associated with a reduction in these gaps. However, measuring the frequency and quality of these interactions has been limited to resource-intensive professional assessments that often take place in the home. Funded by seven NIH grants, the methods developed by Dr. Mendelsohn, Dr. Roby, and colleagues are designed to increase the adoption of both comprehensive developmental promotion strategies and assessment tools that can be used during pediatric well-child visits. Capturing a Picture of Cognition in the Home Recently, the research team evaluated and updated the StimQ , a measure of the cognitive home environment that has informed at least 93 research studies worldwide—29 at NYU Langone alone—since its creation in 1996. The tool assesses parents’ verbal responsivity, teaching, reading behaviors, and availability of home learning materials. The revised version, StimQ , is updated to reflect developments in both available technology and the field’s understanding of cognitive stimulation and its impact on outcomes. The interviewer-administered questionnaire takes approximately 20 minutes to complete; it is freely available online in several languages and has been used by early childhood programs to measure the effectiveness of interventions. “The use of this tool over the past 25 years has dramatically expedited our understanding of the value of developmental interventions while building the capacity of individual programs to measure their impact on a given child and family,” says Dr. Roby. The Well Exam: A Ready Intervention Opportunity To identify opportunities for intervention at the point of pediatric primary care, the research team developed the Video Interaction Project (VIP) . The parent education program is designed to be delivered at the time of every pediatric well visit from birth through 5 years. Within each session, a VIP coach leads a development-focused discussion with parents, then creates a three-minute video of the parents interacting with their children during reading or play. The coach then watches the video with the parent, reinforcing strengths and discussing opportunities to enhance interactions that stimulate early brain development and provide children with the cognitive, language, and social–emotional capacities critical for learning. “Our family-centered, culturally aligned approach empowers parents to build on their strengths and have agency over their children’s healthy development.” “The elegance of this solution is in its simplicity and low cost at just $250 per child per year,” says Dr. Mendelsohn. Studies of the impact of VIP have found that the intervention enhances parent–child relationships, improves child literacy and social–emotional development, and measurably reduces behavior problems that interfere with learning, such as hyperactivity. Expanding Access to Strengths-Based Tools Currently implemented across 10 locations in the New York area, the VIP program, supported by the team at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, is also available in Hudson County, New Jersey; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; and Flint, Michigan, where it was implemented to support families impacted by the city’s water crisis. The team is also working on global implementation, with work underway in Brazil and plans for expansion in Singapore. Over the next five years, the researchers aim to reach 20,000 families by expanding the VIP program to 50 sites nationally. “The success of this intervention is its family-centered, culturally aligned approach,” says Dr. Roby. “It recognizes the enormous pressures families face—from poverty, trauma, racism, and the global pandemic—and empowers parents to see where they can build on their strengths and have agency over their children’s healthy development.” Pediatrics, Population Health Alan L. Mendelsohn, MD, is a professor of pediatrics and population health, and co-director of research for the Divisions of General Pediatrics and Developmental–Behavioral Pediatrics. His research interests include poverty-related disparities in early child development and school readiness, and the promotion of positive child experiences as a buffer to trauma and adversity. Pediatrics, Psychology Erin M. Roby, PhD, is a developmental psychologist and an assistant professor of pediatrics. Her research focuses on early child development and behavior, parent–child interactions, and interventions to promote positive parenting and outcomes for children who face adversity. A National Roadmap to Meet the Emotional Health Needs of Pediatric Patients NYU Langone physicians and researchers design a go-to model for educating providers and supporting patients and families. Interventional Pulmonology Comes of Age A veteran researcher and clinician discusses landmark advances ahead in diagnostics, therapeutics, and ICU care. Microbial Signatures May Predict Respiratory Failure in COVID-19 Secondary infections not associated with worse clinical outcomes but rather poor viral control is the critical event. Could Direct Injection Improve Tumor Response Rates? A landmark trial assesses injected biologics for patients with refractory non-small cell lung cancer. Evidence for Music’s Power in Dementia Care Evidence is increasing for music-based cognitive interventions, says Mary S. Mittelman, DrPH , director of the Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program and a research professor of psychiatry and rehabilitation medicine. For decades, Dr. Mittelman has designed and studied psychosocial interventions to evaluate their benefits for family caregivers and their relatives with dementia. Her work has shown older adults with dementia and their family members both benefit from arts-based activities . Her earlier randomized controlled trials demonstrated that caregivers across demographics benefit from comprehensive counseling and support, which improves their own emotional and physical well-being and thereby helps them to keep their relatives at home. The evidence from this research has spurred New York state funding for similar programs that include counseling and support, including the one at NYU Langone Health directed by Dr. Mittelman. Her team recently earned an additional five years of state funding to support these efforts through the Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program “Psychosocial interventions have proven to have a significant positive impact on persons with dementia and their caregivers.” “There is no drug yet available that can prevent or cure dementia, but psychosocial interventions have proven to have a significant positive impact on persons with dementia and their caregivers,” says Dr. Mittelman. With her colleague, Kendra Ray, PhD , a research assistant professor of rehabilitative medicine, Dr. Mittelman has shown that music can reduce agitation and depression symptoms among people with dementia living in nursing homes. Additionally, Dr. Ray has found patients with HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders benefit from music-based interventions. The Unforgettables Chorus In 2011, Dr. Mittelman launched The Unforgettables chorus as an intervention and social outlet for people with dementia together with their caregivers. The project reflected emerging evidence that music-related memories and abilities remain accessible even after dementia onset, Dr. Mittelman says. “Many people have the prejudice that people with dementia won’t be able learn anything. In a situation in which they are producing music for the enjoyment of other people, our participants with dementia in the early to middle stages were able to learn 18 new songs for every performance.” pilot study of the chorus , published in 2018, found significant quality of life improvements for both people with dementia and their caregivers following participation. Participants stated that benefits included belonging to a group, having a normal activity together and learning new skills. Since the pandemic started, chorus practice has been held online where it draws an even larger crowd—an average of 75 participants each week, Dr. Mittelman says. She notes the chorus has also served as a model for others around the United States and elsewhere. Looking Beyond Alzheimer’s and Dementia Prevalence of cognitive disorders among people with HIV/AIDS has increased over the past few decades due to extended lifespans afforded by antiretrovirals, Dr. Ray explains, which has increased the burden on certified nursing assistants (CNAs). As part of her dissertation, Dr. Ray developed a 4-week musical intervention specifically for people with HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders and their CNAs. Among 12 affected nursing home residents and five CNAs in the study, Dr. Ray found significant decreases in depressive symptoms among residents and personal achievement improvements among CNAs over the course of the intervention. “Medicine should include more than a prescription for drugs. Good care for people with dementia and their family members should also include psychosocial interventions.” “Medicine should include more than a prescription for drugs. Good care for people with dementia and their family members should also include psychosocial interventions such as counseling and support, as well as arts-based interventions that can improve quality of life,” Dr. Mittelman says. Moving Toward Standard Practice Drs. Mittelman and Ray’s studies are supported by many others touting the benefits of music-based interventions to alleviate neuropsychiatric symptoms . A long-term goal is to standardize approaches and study designs to analyze benefits more deeply. This includes assessing and quantifying psychosocial benefits between patients and caregivers. Still, Dr. Mittelman says the work to date provides clear evidence for the value of integrating music and other arts into the lives of people with dementia and their family members. Additionally, tailored interventions that include caregivers keep more patients living in the community, rather than nursing homes, saving millions of dollars in direct care costs Mary S. Mittelman, DrPH, is a research professor of psychiatry and rehabilitation medicine. Dr. Mittelman’s work centers on interventions to improve the lives of caregivers and people living with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias. Improving Precision Diagnosis of Lung Nodules Diagnosing suspicious peripheral pulmonary lesions seen on CT scan has often required bronchoscopy and an additional thoracic surgery to retrieve the tissue needed for biopsy. Vivek Murthy, MD , are using robotic bronchoscopy to improve minimally invasive diagnosis of lung nodules, reducing the need for more invasive procedures. NYU Langone Health was involved in testing the robotic equipment and was one of the first clinical sites in the U.S. to use the technology. “The paradigm has shifted in interventional pulmonology,” says Dr. Bessich. “With CT scans emitting less radiation than before and lung cancer screening widely available, the incidence of finding lung lesions is a lot higher. As a result, we’re seeing more patients needing biopsies and need a really accurate way to get to these lesions.” Increasing Diagnostic Yield Robotic bronchoscopy builds on technical and procedural advances for minimally invasive diagnosis of lung nodules developed since the introduction of endobronchial ultrasound in the 1990s. It allows for fine control of bronchoscopic navigation by replacing hand-directed movements with electronic control mechanisms. An ultrathin, ultra-flexible catheter allows navigation far into the periphery of the lung, enabling the precision needed for biopsy. “The robotic software generates a high-resolution map of a patient’s lungs and helps us direct the minimally invasive tools to target and biopsy lung nodules without making any cuts in the skin.” “The robotic software generates a high-resolution map of a patient’s lungs and helps us direct the minimally invasive tools to target and biopsy lung nodules without making any cuts in the skin,” Dr. Murthy explains. Once a target is identified, the three-dimensional image displays airway trees and automatically generates a path and anatomic borders to maximize safety. Dr. Bessich says the robot has a much better yield than all prior navigational software in finding, accessing and biopsying suspicious nodules. “It used to be that if a patient needed biopsy of a lymph node, we would do that procedure separately, and the nodule would often be accessed via CT-guided biopsy, coming from the outside of the chest. Now, with the improved yield from robotic bronchoscopy, we’re doing them both together and potentially eliminating the need for a second procedure.” Enhancing Cancer Diagnosis The interventional pulmonology team is working with NYU Langone neurology colleague Daniel Orringer, MD , to combine robotic bronchoscopy with in evaluating nodules they suspect are cancerous—without destroying any more tissue than necessary. Raman spectroscopy is a light scattering technique that stimulates cells and tissue and captures a high-fidelity graphic image, which is colored to resemble a hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) pathologic stain. “Because of the quality, SRH (stimulated Raman histology) allows pathologists to look for signature cancer cells. They feel more comfortable because it looks like the familiar H&E stain,” Dr. Bessich says. “When we do forceps biopsies, we need to take eight to 10 samples; we are giving them one or two samples from SRH to analyze.” Currently, pathologists aren’t reviewing the images in real time; the pulmonologists are saving the images and sending to them. The hope moving forward is that with robotic bronchoscopy, they will eventually have real time, on-site confirmation that peripheral pulmonary lesions need ablation or resection. Future Directions As they employ robotic bronchoscopy for more and more cases, Drs. Bessich and Murthy are using the artificial intelligence features of the equipment, teaching it to distinguish cancerous lesions from noncancerous. “The more airways we go into and the more pictures we get, the more accurate it gets,” Dr. Bessich says. Their goal is to identify the minimum volume of tissue needed for any molecular or genetic testing an oncologist wants completed. Their eventual hope is to be able to apply therapeutics using the robotic bronchoscope. “The beauty of doing everything via bronchoscopy is that we spare the patient multiple procedures, while at the same time getting better outcomes.” “Robotic bronchoscopy has revolutionized our approach,” Dr. Bessich says. “The beauty of doing everything via bronchoscopy is that we spare the patient multiple procedures, while at the same time getting better outcomes.” Vivek Murthy, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and cardiothoracic surgery and the associate director of the Interventional Pulmonary Program. His research focuses on immune system responses to lung cancer and cancer-directed immunotherapy, as well as the development of novel minimally invasive treatment approaches. Ranibizumab Port Delivery System: Is There a Cost Benefit? The cost over one year of ranibizumab PDS with refills pro re nata (PRN) versus the cost of real-world regimens of ranibizumab, aflibercept, and bevacizumab injections. ADAPTED FROM: JAMA Ophthalmol . 2022;140(7):716-723. A mean number of 9.3 aflibercept injections, 10.8 ranibizumab injections, or 58.1 bevacizumab injections would be needed to break even with the cost of ranibizumab PDS with 1 refill. ADAPTED FROM: While neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) only represents 10 to 15 percent of AMD cases , it was responsible for 90 percent of AMD-related visual impairment before the introduction of injectable anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents. However, increasing use of these agents contributes significantly to costs, and frequent (e.g., monthly) intravitreal injections can cause problems for some patients, due to factors such as location, drug access, health literacy, and fear of injections. In 2022, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the first port delivery system (PDS) with sustained delivery of ranibizumab through implantation, which requires initial surgery with office refills as often as every 6 months. “The negative aspect of intravitreal injections is that they need to be administered roughly every 1 to 3 months, depending on the patient,” says , retina specialist and director of healthcare delivery research for the Department of Ophthalmology. “The purpose of this new device is to act as a drug reservoir, which is surgically implanted into the eye and refilled every 6 months or longer.” A recent study in JAMA Ophthalmology led by Dr. Parikh and colleagues at NYU Langone Health investigated costs of intravitreal anti-VEGF injections versus ranibizumab PDS for patients with nAMD. The team found that in most clinical scenarios, ranibizumab PDS costs more than bevacizumab in all scenarios studied. For ranibizumab and aflibercept injections, ranibizumab PDS may confer cost savings if monthly injection regimens are required. Yet real-world data suggest bimonthly regimens are more common. “Based on our findings, for most patients, the best course of action for patient safety, practicality for monitoring, and cost is to continue the current paradigm of coming into the office to receive injections.” “Based on our findings, for most patients, the best course of action for patient safety, practicality for monitoring, and cost is to continue the current paradigm of coming into the office to receive injections,” Dr. Parikh adds. “For patients who are home bound, live in rural areas, have access issues, or no family support, the PDS system may be a good option, but what is best for patients is to still be monitored regularly, which for now requires in-person visits.” Disclosure: Dr. Parikh has received consulting fees from Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield and Apellis Pharmaceuticals. A Successful Triple Transplant for Heart, Lungs, and Kidney The patient’s Tc-99m PYP scan on admission. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Three Failing Organs and a Rare Autoimmune Disease Almost 15 years ago, a then-26-year-old man with a history of Goodpasture syndrome received a kidney transplant from his brother. In 2021, he presented to an emergency room in Brooklyn with symptoms of severe heart failure. After his symptoms progressed, he was referred to cardiologist , an assistant professor of medicine at NYU Langone Health’s , who found evidence of restrictive cardiomyopathy—highly unusual for someone his age. After an initial echocardiogram and PYP scan, Dr. Kadosh established a working diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis; however, given the patient’s age, he was sent for confirmatory genetic testing, which ruled out hereditary amyloidosis. A follow-up endomyocardial biopsy was also conducted and was consistent with this finding. “We didn’t know exactly what was wrong, but we knew what the treatment was—he needed a heart transplant,” Dr. Kadosh says. “We didn’t know exactly what was wrong, but we knew what the treatment was—he needed a heart transplant.” As the patient’s condition continued to deteriorate, further tests revealed that he would also need a lung and kidney transpant. “His pulmonary pressures were extremely high and irreversible,” Dr. Kadosh explains. “The kidney that he’d received years earlier was rapidly failing.” After a multidisciplinary discussion, specialists from the NYU Langone Transplant Institute decided the patient needed a triple organ transplant: heart, lungs, and kidney. He was admitted to the hospital, where he waited for two months until a suitable donor became available. In March 2022, a team of transplant surgeons including Deane E. Smith, MD Jonathan Berger , MD , and clinical specialists conducted a 13-hour operation to successfully transplant the organs he needed, making this the first successful triple transplant for heart, lungs, and kidney in the Northeast. Three months after surgery, the patient is doing well, with additional diagnostic studies ongoing. “Due to consistently high calcium levels, our working diagnosis is tertiary hyperparathyroidism as a result of the failed kidney transplant, but we are still waiting for more definitive results,” Dr. Kadosh says. “Few transplant programs would have the expertise to take on a case like this due to the high degree of technical complexity,” Dr. Kadosh observes. “Our unique skills and experience, combined with our robust clinical infrastructure, gave us certainty that we could be successful.” An Unexpected Finding: Not Amyloidosis On admission, the patient’s PYP scan was highly positive, the most positive that Dr. Kadosh and team had ever seen, yet genetic testing and endomyocardical biopsy confirmed that the diagnosis was not cardiac amyloidosis. High Pulmonary Pressures The patient’s CT scan after his initial workup. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff A CT scan showed irreversible pulmonary hypertension, indicating that the patient could not undergo a heart and kidney transplant alone—he would not survive the surgery. Other tests revealed the kidney he received almost two decades earlier was rapidly failing. A Complex Procedure SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff The patient was admitted into the hospital, and had to wait two months for a suitable donor. A large team of doctors and nurses from the NYU Langone Transplant Institute conducted a 13-hour operation to successfully transplant the organs. Massive Calcification A stained slide showing calcification in myocytes. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Surgical pathology from the cardiac explant revealed extensive microcalcification within the myocyte cytoplasm and cardiac interstitium involving the entire left ventricle and both atria. Further studies showed consistently elevated serum calcium and parathyroid hormone levels, suggesting the cause of his symptoms was tertiary hyperparathyroidism secondary to the failing kidney graft. Bernard S. Kadosh, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and a cardiologist at the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center. His research and clinical interests include cardiomyopathy, novel therapies for heart failure, and improving outcomes in cardiogenic shock and heart transplantation. Longer View Supports ECMO for Patients with Severe COVID-19 ECMO machine. PHOTO: iStockPhotos Patients with severe COVID-19 who were supported with venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VV-ECMO) experienced high rates of lung recovery and noteworthy long-term outcomes at one year, according to research published in The Annals of Thoracic Surgery Of 415 patients with confirmed COVID-19 admitted to the ICU at NYU Langone Health between March 10 and May 1, 2020, a multidisciplinary ECMO team selected 30 patients for VV-ECMO. Of those selected, 93.3 percent survived to discharge either to home or to acute rehabilitation. At a follow-up of nearly one year, 86.7 percent of those treated with ECMO were surviving, including one patient who underwent lung transplantation. “Our work suggests that with appropriately selected patients and aggressive management strategies, the use of ECMO support for severe COVID-19 can result in exceptional survival,” says eane E. Smith, M , an associate professor in the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery. “These patients who leave the hospital without the need for oxygen therapy are very likely to remain alive and well one year later.” “With appropriately selected patients and aggressive management strategies, the use of ECMO support for severe COVID-19 can result in exceptional survival.” Deane E. Smith, MD. Minimizing Ventilator Damage Most of the patients admitted to the ICU —77.8 percent—were intubated for mechanical ventilatory support. While conventional mechanical ventilation in COVID-19 has been associated with mortality greater than 50 percent , in some cases VV-ECMO may result in decreased ventilator support, minimizing damage to the lungs and allowing them to begin healing. “These patients received ECMO for severe COVID-19 during the height of the pandemic in New York City—at a time when very little was known about the likelihood for success,” Dr. Smith notes. The VV-ECMO patients were hospitalized for a median of 45 days and supported on ECMO for a median of 19 days. Results were encouraging: no patients left the hospital ventilator dependent, and only one patient required supplemental oxygen. Value of Patient Selection and Standardized Approach Patient selection was a significant factor in the success of VV-ECMO, according to Dr. Smith. “We were struck by the number of young, otherwise healthy patients who were dying from the disease. We felt patient selection was very important,” he says. The technology was not considered a “bailout” or salvage therapy but was offered to patients believed to have a reasonable chance for survival. “We did not feel that using ECMO to have patients survive simply to go to long-term facilities debilitated and ventilator-dependent was successful,” Dr. Smith adds. “We believed that we could protect the lungs and allow patients to return to their normal lives at the end of it.” A standardized approach to patient management and lung protection was equally valuable. The protocol included not deviating from lung protective ventilation strategies, early tracheostomy and frequent bronchoscopy, treatment of coinfection, and standardization of an anticoagulation regimen. Additionally, to help improve oxygenation, the team frequently positioned patients who were not recovering as quickly as expected in a prone position. “Most of these things, such as bronchoscopy or tracheostomy, were not considered safe in patients with COVID-19 at the start of the pandemic,” Dr. Smith says. “Our team was aggressive with these interventions much earlier than most hospitals Follow-up and Recovery Even in the patient who went on to require lung transplantation, the research team concluded that a period of rehabilitation was important to facilitate quicker recovery from his transplant surgery. “We learned that lung recovery is possible. When the pandemic started, that was not clear,” Dr. Smith says. Deane E. Smith, MD, is an associate professor of cardiothoracic surgery. He is director of the Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation Program, co-director of the Thoracic Aortic Disease Program, and associate director of Heart Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support. Biomarkers of Neurodegeneration Elevated in Patients with Severe COVID-19 Alzheimers Dement . 2022 May;18:899-910. Study participants included those who had been hospitalized with COVID-19 as well as patients without COVID-19 representing a spectrum of cognitive function. . 2022 May;18:899-910. The study showed neurodegenerative biomarkers to be elevated in COVID-19 patients. A new paper published in Alzheimer’s and Dementia finds that key biomarkers of neurodegeneration are elevated in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 , potentially providing insight into the growing evidence of significant neurological effects in survivors of the illness . Some biomarkers matched or exceeded levels observed in patients with Alzheimer’s disease. “Our study identified elevations of several blood-based markers specific to the central nervous system, including neuronal and glial markers,” says Jennifer A. Frontera, MD , who led the NYU Langone Health research team and is a member of the World Health Organization’s Brain Health Neurology and COVID-19 Forum. “The finding that markers of neurodegeneration are high in patients with severe COVID-19—who have no prior history of cognitive decline—adds support to the idea that the extended states of hypoxia and hyperinflammation in these patients may be having a significant impact on brain function,” says study co-author The finding that markers of neurodegeneration are high in patients with severe COVID-19—who have no prior history of cognitive decline—adds support to the idea that the extended states of hypoxia and hyperinflammation in these patients may be having a significant impact on brain function Of the 251 patients with COVID-19 included in the study, 48 percent had new neurological events occur during hospitalization, with toxic-metabolic encephalopathy being the most common diagnosis. Overall, the neurodegenerative biomarkers found to correlate most strongly with COVID-19 severity and risk of encephalopathy were total tau (t-tau), phosphorylated tau-181 (p-tau181), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and neurofilament light chain (NfL). Strikingly, levels of three biomarkers—GFAP, NfL, and ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase 1 (UCHL1)—were as high or even higher in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 than in non-COVID patients with Alzheimer’s disease. “More research is needed to track the trajectories of these biomarkers and their associations with poor cognitive outcomes in survivors of COVID-19,” says Dr. Frontera. “More research is needed to track the trajectories of these biomarkers and their associations with poor cognitive outcomes.” Jennifer A. Frontera, MD￼ Jennifer A. Frontera, MD, is a professor of neurology and a member of the World Health Organization’s Brain Health Neurology and COVID-19 Forum. She specializes in vascular neurology and neurocritical care. offers consulting services to individual clients and businesses across the metropolitan area. As consultants to industry, labor, and government organizations—including Google, the United Nations, and Con Edison—we have implemented numerous successful programs aimed at preventing injuries and disability in the workplace. product design and biomechanical analysis . Our team works closely with each client to develop feasible and practical solutions that benefit both employees and organizations. Ergonomic Evaluations for Individuals offers ergonomic evaluations and recommendations for people who experience any type of discomfort while or after performing work activities. Such worksite accommodations may include suggestions about different ways to perform job tasks or recommendations to change a desk, chair, or other elements of the work setting. This service is also available to people who work from home and want to ensure their home office is comfortable and safe. Our team also conducts department-wide ergonomic interventions, in which we involve end users, supervisors, upper management, and other key personnel. Physical therapy can help people return to daily activities, including work, as quickly as possible and is the foundation of . We provide physical therapy, focusing on functional performance, aerobic conditioning and musculoskeletal fitness, pain control, education, ergonomic awareness, and work conditioning. Physical Therapy Treatment for Individuals Our treatment programs are individually designed to meet each person’s goals and are based on evaluations performed by a licensed physical therapist. Treatment typically occurs 2 to 3 times per week and takes 45 minutes to 1 hour to complete. Patients are expected to be active participants in their rehabilitation and are given the tools they need to become independent in their physical therapy program. The overall goals are to restore patients to their previous functional capabilities and enable them to return to their normal activities, including work. Our physical therapy program offers a proactive approach to treatment, in which you work with a therapist to incorporate the activities of daily life and job demands into a functional rehabilitation program. This includes an individualized approach to education and functional rehabilitation. We provide the tools you need to understand and manage pain and function. Our physical therapists are trained in the prevention and management of spine conditions, chronic pain, and occupational disorders. They are part of a team that includes a medical advisor, a psychiatrist, and a psychologist and are skilled in psychologically informed physical therapy, an approach that takes into consideration patient needs when developing a treatment plan. They coordinate referrals to other specialists, if necessary. Patient progress is monitored on a regular basis and discussed in weekly team meetings when necessary. Our physical therapy team is specially trained to treat the following people: those with all types of musculoskeletal conditions those with chronic pain those who are not responding to traditional treatments those who have emotional distress because of pain those who are preparing or recovering from surgery those who are focused on returning to work after an injury The evidence-based return to work program at is designed for people who have been out of work and need intense conditioning and retraining to meet the demands of their jobs. Our team—working in cooperation with case managers, human resources departments, and unions—evaluates and treats people with pain. The person with the injury participates in an intensive and comprehensive program that simulates their job demands whenever possible and is individualized to fit their specific needs. The goal is to prepare patients functionally and psychologically to return to work within two to four weeks after entering the program. Our program has a success rate of 95 percent for returning a person to any type of work, and a success rate of 90 percent for returning a person to their previous position. Before acceptance into the program, the medical advisor at NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center, a New York State–licensed physical therapist, and a licensed psychologist specializing in occupational orthopedics perform thorough medical, functional, and behavioral evaluations. This gives us a baseline functional assessment and is used to customize an appropriate rehabilitation program. The 4-week program is held for 4 hours a day, 5 days per week, for up to 80 total hours. Daily activities consist of patient education, intense physical work conditioning, and pain and stress management sessions. Conferences with attending physicians or other healthcare providers, such as nutritionists, are also offered. The program includes a weekly assessment of the patient’s progress expectations and short- and long-term functional goals, as well as a biweekly evaluation by the team’s physician. Ergonomic assessments are provided as needed. , we offer evidence-based psychological services to help people manage pain, and provide stress management techniques to help break the stress–pain cycle. Our cognitive behavioral approach to pain stresses the interaction between beliefs, attitudes, behaviors, and disability. We strive to provide you with tools you can use to manage pain and stress. This service is provided to people who may benefit from an interdisciplinary approach to physical therapy, as well as those who are struggling to cope with chronic pain. Cognitive Behavioral Pain Management Program Our psychologist works closely with your physical therapist and physician to provide collaborative care of the highest quality, so that you can return to a productive and satisfying life. Treatment with cognitive behavioral therapy is usually brief, lasting only about two to eight sessions. However, long-term treatment is also available. The cognitive behavioral pain management program starts with a comprehensive assessment conducted by a licensed psychologist specializing in pain management. As part of this program, we offer the following services: evaluation of a person’s stress level, symptoms, and coping skills at home and work education about the relationship between stress and pain, ways of monitoring one’s stress levels, and techniques for relaxing, coping, and problem-solving take home exercises and materials to encourage ongoing participation in stress management techniques referrals for people who may need additional support Presurgical Cognitive Behavioral Program The idea of surgery can be overwhelming. Our psychologists evaluate the stress levels of people who are preparing for surgery and provide cognitive behavioral therapy to address their specific concerns. Patients attend up to half a dozen 30-minute therapy sessions where they receive pain education; pre- and post-surgery coping strategies, such as relaxation with guided imagery; and planning for after surgery, including identifying sources of support and managing expectations about recovery. Medical Services for Individuals & Companies is part of a large network of orthopedic specialists at that comprises physicians and healthcare providers who have a particular interest in musculoskeletal disorders and the prevention of disability. Medical Evaluations Medical evaluations are important to determine the best treatment plan and the coordination of care. They may also be of interest to those who wish to seek a second opinion about a medical condition or treatment recommendation, such as surgery or work conditioning programs. We provide board-certified specialty evaluation of musculoskeletal injuries and disorders by our on-site medical advisor and offer additional resources through our affiliation with NYU Langone’s Spine Center. When appropriate, referrals are made for diagnostic procedures, specialist consultations, or physical therapy. Expanding the Practice of In-Office Needle Arthroscopy Orthopedic surgeons at NYU Langone Health, led by , professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of the Division of Foot and Ankle Surgery , have pioneered a minimally invasive in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA) system, known as NanoScope. Featuring a 1.9-millimeter needle scope and suite of tools, the system is rapidly replacing more involved surgeries and dramatically reducing patients’ return to work and play times Dr. Kennedy is now training orthopedic surgeon Arianna Gianakos, DO, under a first-of-its kind IONA fellowship. Here, they discuss the procedure’s promising future. About the IONA Approach and Its Advantages What makes this in-office needle arthroscopy approach so unique? Dr. Kennedy: IONA is relatively new, and we were the first in the world to use this chip-on-tip technology. Until recently, there were devices that offered limited visualization, but nobody had the ability to do anything beyond make or confirm a diagnosis. Now, we have a range of 2-millimeter instruments that allow us to repair or replace cartilage injuries and defects, take away scar tissue, and even deliver biologic agents. We can perform procedures in a clinic setting that had previously been done in an operating room, and because the soft tissue trauma is so small, most patients are able to walk off the table afterward. “We can perform procedures in a clinic setting that had previously been done in an operating room, and because the soft tissue trauma is so small, most patients are able to walk off the table afterward.” Already, we have published a number of papers showing patient outcomes, including return to play times, are reduced by an order of magnitude in comparison to what we would be doing in an operating room. Dr. Gianakos, as the first fellow to be trained formally on this procedure, what are your goals for learning this technique? Dr. Gianakos: After I completed a year of foot and ankle specialty training at Massachusetts General Hospital, I wanted to further specialize in sports medicine at a leading center in the field. My goal for learning the NanoScope system is to help transfer the technology and training up to Yale. That will also allow us to collaborate with NYU Langone and other top-notch institutions like Yale, Harvard, Amsterdam Medical Center, and Fortius Clinic in London so we can collaborate on future projects and research. The NanoScope system allows you as the surgeon to show patients their procedure in real time. What’s the advantage? The patient, under local anesthetic, can observe everything and be very much part of the procedure. The result is a much better understanding than if I were to have to explain or draw what I did after a procedure. I can get them to move their ankle or knee and illustrate how things have improved even as we’re doing it. If there’s a divot out of their talus, patients love to see how we’re going in, putting in a scaffold, and adding a biologic to it. The divot’s gone, and now they know because they can see it. What’s Possible with IONA What kinds of procedures are currently possible with this system? My initial focus is impingement cases and being able to debride both soft tissue and bony injuries, cartilage injuries. We can also correct osteochondral defects and perform microfracture and biocartilage surgeries. We’re writing up a report on the technique for ATFL (anterior talo-fibular ligament) injuries that we’ll be presenting at the international ISAKOS Congress. Dr. Kennedy is focused on tendoscopy procedures as well, which is an area in which many foot and ankle fellows don’t get much training in primary fellowships. After a more conventional surgery for an ankle sprain, for example, soccer players would be back playing within eight weeks. When patients have an ATFL reconstruction with this device, they’re up and walking within a couple of days, back training within two weeks, and can return to play within four weeks. It’s a massive improvement. “When patients have an ATFL reconstruction with this device, they’re up and walking within a couple of days, back training within two weeks, and can return to play within four weeks. It’s a massive improvement.” Dr. Gianakos, how else has this technology aided your research? I’m currently working towards my PhD, which is in gender differences in foot and ankle surgery. Dr. Kennedy has been very supportive and is on a lot of my presentations and research projects, and this technology has helped some things come to light. My hands are a different size than Dr. Kennedy’s hands, for example. How does that impact how the new pen instrumentation and camera fit? I’m also exploring how men and women are responding to watching the surgery and asking questions about it. Improving Patient Care with IONA Where do you see this technique heading in improving patient care? Originally, we were doing lots of debridements, but now we have the ability to build as well as remove tissue or debris. We’re building ligaments where we’re putting in scaffolds for cartilage repair and regeneration. For years, the field was delivering biologic agents like platelet-rich plasma or bone marrow or fat in a fairly haphazard way. Now we have precision-guided delivery. We can see where the problem is, see what is the best biologic used to address it, and deliver it exactly where it needs to be. We are constantly evolving. For instance, we can do a menisectomy and even meniscal repair and labral ligament release here in the office now. We’re minimizing the instrument size so that we can minimize the soft tissue damage or trauma to maximize the patient’s outcome. By doing so, I really feel that we’re heading for the next step: a lot of what we do in an operating room now will not be done there in five years’ time. Dr. Kennedy is a paid consultant for Arthrex, which produces the NanoScope. Radiation Therapy Shows Promise for Arrhythmia Treatment With catheter ablation not an option, multidisciplinary team completes an innovative radioablation. Heart Attack Accelerates Breast Cancer Award-winning researcher uncovers impact of cardiovascular events on tumor recurrence. Stay-At-Home Orders Lead to Cardiovascular Consequences Cholesterol levels spiked during the pandemic among groups already at risk. Leading a Global Study of Antithrombotics in Acute COVID-19 Experts at NYU Langone Health play a key role in landmark ACTIV-4A trial. Stimulant Shows Promise in Treating Sluggish Cognitive Tempo in Adults with ADHD Researchers find improved symptoms in a first-of-its kind clinical trial. Giving Psychedelic Medicine a Dedicated Infrastructure First-of-its-kind center will advance basic science, trials, and training on clinical benefits of psychedelics. NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2023 AAOS Annual Meeting This March 7–11, NYU Langone Orthopedics researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons in Las Vegas At this year’s meeting, NYU Langone Orthopedic faculty presented 77 posters, 31 papers, 32 videos, and 38 symposia, courses, and special sessions ( ). See our AAOS Booth Agenda here Tuesday, March In-Office Needle Arthroscopy for Treatment of Anterior Ankle Impingement Orthopaedic Video Theater (Award Winners) Ajay C. Kanakamedala, MD; Christopher Colasanti, MD; Dylan T. Lowe, MD; Eoghan Hurley, PhD, MCH, MBCHB; John G. Kennedy, MD, Mohammad T. Azam, BS 7 am 5 pm Thursday, March The Long-term Effect of Intraoperative Hip Fracture Injections (HiFI) on Function and Patient Reported Outcomes: A Randomized Controlled Trial Poster Presentation: Trauma Rivka Chinyere Ihejirika-Lomedico, MD; Nathan August Lorentz, MD; Sara Jo Solasz, BA; Kenneth A. Egol, MD, FAAOS; Philipp Leucht, MD, FAAOS Friday, March 1 PO 564 – Second Dose of Dexamethasone Reduces Postoperative Opioid Consumption, Pain, and Length of Stay in Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty Adult Reconstruction Knee Christian T. Oakley, BS; Jerry Arraut, BS; Joshua C. Rozell, MD; Kyle W. Lawrence, BS; Mark A. Kurapatti, BS; Omid S. Barzideh, MD, FAAOS; Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, FAAOS 9:05 am Psychogenic Nonepileptic Seizures: Exploring Unmet Needs Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) may closely resemble epileptic seizures, complicating diagnosis and management. Patients with PNES benefit from specialty care for their atypical seizures that lack abnormal neuronal epileptiform activity However, despite a high prevalence rate (2-33 per 100,000) in the general population, the pathogenesis of PNES is not well-understood and treatment options remain limited. “Functional neurological disorders, including PNES, pose a frustrating challenge for both psychiatrists and neurologists,” says Deepti Anbarasan, MD , a triple board-certified specialist in neurology, psychiatry, and epilepsy. “Due to various reasons including the complexity of their neuropsychiatric symptoms, providers may feel ill-equipped to debrief patients about the diagnosis in the acute care setting and ensure appropriate outpatient follow-up.” Dr. Anbarasan is uniquely positioned to treat patients with functional neurological disorders (FNDs) such as PNES. Her approach uses a combination of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), mindfulness-based interventions, and pharmacotherapy in the inpatient and outpatient settings to improve symptoms and quality of life. High Unmet Need Primary ownership of patients with PNES has remained a subject of contention in the neurology and psychiatry communities, making management of these patients continually challenging, says Dr. Anbarasan. In part, this may be explained by the lack of a single etiological model for PNES and the absence of a liable universal phenotype for this condition. From the psychological perspective, patients with PNES exhibit a simultaneous existence of both hyperarousal responses (e.g., hypervigilance, somatic preoccupation, emotional reactivity) and hypoarousal responses (e.g., dissociation, alexithymia, avoidance). From the neurological perspective, recent structural and functional studies have begun to uncover the neurobiological underpinnings of PNES and other FNDs. “We know that PNES has a high association with a history of prior physical or sexual abuse, as well as medical comorbidities, such as mild traumatic brain injury, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and chronic pain syndrome,” says Dr. Anbarasan. Diagnosis and Treatment While the differential for PNES is broad, diagnosis is usually established using video electroencephalography monitoring. Specifically, the recorded spell must be confirmed as being typical of what occurs in daily life. Prompt diagnosis allows for more rapid implementation of appropriate psychological and psychiatric interventions and cessation of antiepileptic drugs, if necessary, says Dr. Anbarasan. Medications may be necessary for some patients, especially if they have comorbid psychiatric conditions like post-traumatic stress disorder or major depressive disorder. Other treatment strategies include hypnosis, biofeedback, and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing , which integrates aspects of several psychotherapies. Reducing Stigma Dr. Anbarasan hopes to encourage medical professionals to refer patients with PNES and other neuropsychiatric conditions for specialist management. “Recovery from past trauma, in addition to the seizures, depends largely on their ability to overcome the stigma and follow-up with a mental health professional.” “PNES is a real condition that arises in response to circumstances in patients’ lives. Recovery from past trauma, in addition to the seizures, depends largely on their ability to overcome the stigma and follow-up with a mental health professional.” Deepti Anbarasan, MD, is a clinical associate professor of psychiatry and neurology. Her clinical interest lies in the management of mood and behavioral disturbances associated with epilepsy and other neurodegenerative disorders. Defining Mental Health Strategies for Responding to COVID-19 In April 2021, —an internationally recognized expert on anxiety, stress and prolonged grief—gave a talk entitled “The Mental Health Impact of the COVID Pandemic: A Major Life Stressor” as part of a video lecture series produced by the National Institutes of Health COVID-19 Scientific Interest Group. Dr. Simon covered topics including the pandemic as a life stressor; current knowledge about its relationship to stressor-related conditions; COVID-specific factors that increase risk for negative mental health outcomes; and therapeutic approaches to supporting mental wellness after the death of a loved one. The lecture expanded on themes Dr. Simon had explored with two colleagues— , the Lucius N. Littauer Professor of Psychiatry and chair of Psychiatry, and Glenn Saxe, MD , professor of adult and child and adolescent psychiatry—in a viewpoint published in October 2020 in the Journal of the American Medical Association . The paper was among the first to highlight and propose a set of public health strategies to mitigate one of the widespread mental health impacts of the pandemic: the toll of mass bereavement. “Our previous research on traumatic stress and prolonged grief led us to recommend an approach involving three distinct and interrelated strategies based on graduated levels of risk.” “Our previous research on traumatic stress and prolonged grief led us to recommend an approach involving three distinct and interrelated strategies based on graduated levels of risk,” Dr. Simon explains. A Tiered Response to the Impact of Mass Death As described in JAMA, effective mental health response to the losses of the pandemic requires a tiered approach. After a death occurs, PCPs can use validated screening tools—such as the PTSD Checklist and the Prolonged Grief 13 questionnaire—to identify family or friends who are at highest risk of developing mental health conditions. For individuals identified at risk, or who have acquired disorders related to their loss, the goal is to deliver evidence-based interventions to return pathological manifestations of bereavement to their normal grief trajectories. Ideally, such interventions could be implemented within primary care or community settings. However, an additional role for primary care is to identify individuals with highest risk and complexity, who should be referred to a specialist. “One of the challenges of the pandemic has been its disruption of social networks and rituals that can help people cope with death and bereavement. Clinicians can help bereaved families find creative ways to safely honor traditions, memorialize the deceased, and improve social support.” This strategy requires that training resources be offered to PCPs and community mental health practitioners about grief and traumatic distress and their variable course. Such training should include tools for assessing and treating bereavement-related mental health conditions. “One of the challenges of the pandemic has been its disruption of social networks and rituals that can help people cope with death and bereavement,” Dr. Simon observes. “Clinicians can help bereaved families find creative ways to safely honor traditions, memorialize the deceased, and improve social support.” A Roadmap for Treating At-Risk Children via Telehealth The pandemic’s disruptions have been especially challenging for two groups of children: those with mental health disorders, and those at risk of maltreatment by family members. Clinicians and caseworkers have often been forced to rely on video chats rather than home visits. Meanwhile, the pandemic has created conditions that can exacerbate a child’s behavioral problems or their vulnerability to abuse. “Many families were on edge before COVID-19 started, but now they’re facing issues ranging from added financial pressures to being in close proximity 24/7.” To help mental health clinicians and caseworkers navigate this difficult terrain, Dr. Saxe and colleagues in the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry developed a series of 11 tip sheets for remotely administering Trauma Systems Therapy (TST)—a model pioneered by Dr. Saxe and widely adopted by child-welfare agencies—in a COVID-19 context. “Many families were on edge before COVID-19 started, but now they’re facing issues ranging from added financial pressures to being in close proximity 24/7,” Dr. Saxe says. “COVID has created a whole new landscape. We’re trying to create a roadmap for moving forward.” Disseminated through a national network of centers that use TST, the tip sheets offer guidance on topics such as problem determination; assessment of environmental stability and safety; building emotional regulation skills; and keeping children and caregivers engaged in the therapeutic process. “Some of the most crucial advice concerns how caregivers can take care of themselves and their teams,” Dr. Saxe adds. “Leaders should assure their staffs that efforts are being taken to protect them. Administrators should share information in a transparent way. We all need to take our own emotional temperature, identify activities that help us cope, and check in with each other regularly.” Glenn Saxe, MD, is a professor of adult and child and adolescent psychiatry. He serves as director of the Trauma Systems Training Center, the primary center for the training and dissemination of Trauma Systems Therapy in the U.S. He is also director of the Center for Child Welfare Practice Innovation, a center of the National Child Traumatic Stress Network. His research focuses on psychiatric consequences of traumatic events in children and on factors that contribute to risk and resilience in the face of adversity. Naomi M. Simon, MD, professor of psychiatry, is vice chair for Research Faculty Development and Mentorship and the director of the Anxiety and Prolonged Grief Program. Her research interests focus on improving the understanding and treatment of prolonged grief, anxiety disorders, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Untangling Schizophrenia’s Ties to COVID-19 Mortality In April 2021, a multi-institutional team led by NYU Langone Health researchers published the first study to evaluate potential increased risk of death from SARS-CoV-2 infection in individuals with psychiatric diagnoses. The results, reported in , received widespread attention from policy makers and the scientific community. “My suspicion is that we’re seeing an immune-mediated phenomenon. Schizophrenia is associated with low-grade inflammation, for example, and this may interfere with the immune system’s ability to mount a more targeted response to SARS-CoV-2 infection.” Katlyn Nemani, MD While the team had hypothesized that the risk of death would be highest for patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders, the magnitude of that risk was unexpected—nearly three times that of patients without a psychiatric disorder. Other researchers soon replicated these findings , both in the United States and elsewhere. Since publishing their initial research, lead author , a research assistant professor of psychiatry, and colleagues including senior author Donald C. Goff, MD , vice chair for research in the Department of Psychiatry, have been further investigating the causes of this striking disparity. “My suspicion is that we’re seeing an immune-mediated phenomenon,” Dr. Nemani explains. “Schizophrenia is associated with low-grade inflammation, for example, and this may interfere with the immune system’s ability to mount a more targeted response to SARS-CoV-2 infection.” An Increased Risk Revealed In the initial study, the investigators analyzed EHRs of 7,348 adult COVID-19 patients in the NYU Langone Health system in New York City and on Long Island between March 3 and May 31, 2020. Of these, they identified 14 percent who were diagnosed with schizophrenia, mood disorders, or anxiety. They then calculated patient death rates within 45 days of testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Risk of mortality was assessed after controlling for age, sex, race, and known medical risk factors. Patients with schizophrenia proved to be by far the most vulnerable subgroup in the mental illness cohort. The team’s findings placed schizophrenia second only to age in strength of an association with mortality among all demographic and medical risk factors examined in the sample. The CDC subsequently added schizophrenia and other mental health conditions to the list of comorbidities that increase the risk of severe COVID-19. A New Insight: Antipsychotics and COVID-19 Risk One crucial question following the initial study was whether psychiatric medications might play a role in raising schizophrenia patients’ odds of dying from COVID-19—a possibility suggested by population studies showing an association between heightened risk and prior antipsychotic use. In a research letter published in September in , Drs. Nemani and Goff, along with other NYU Langone colleagues, reported new findings suggesting that this association may be related to underlying psychiatric diagnosis rather than its treatment. They analyzed the EHRs of 464 COVID-19 patients who had been previously diagnosed with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or bipolar disorder. Of these patients, 196 were treated with antipsychotics. The primary end point was death within 60 days of COVID-19 diagnosis. Once again, adjusted risk of mortality was nearly threefold higher for patients in the schizophrenia spectrum group than for the reference population. However, mortality rates were equivalent in antipsychotic users and non-users. Continuing to Seek an Explanation Dr. Nemani continues to investigate the factors affecting COVID-19 outcomes in patients with schizophrenia. In a study currently in submission, she and her team looked at the association between specific antipsychotics and risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection. They found no antipsychotic medication that increased infection risk, and a few that decreased it. She also plans to study how patients with schizophrenia respond to COVID-19 vaccines compared to healthy patients. “Some evidence suggests patients with schizophrenia have premature aging of the immune system,” she explains. “A decline in immune function may contribute to their vulnerability to severe infection. This may also lead to a diminished response to vaccines.” “Research like this could have important implications for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19 in people with schizophrenia, affecting everything from the selection of antipsychotics for a given patient to the timing of booster doses.” Adds Dr. Goff, “Research like this could have important implications for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19 in people with schizophrenia, affecting everything from the selection of antipsychotics for a given patient to the timing of booster doses. And it will advance our understanding of a mental disorder that’s associated with heightened risk of mortality even in the absence of a global pandemic.” Donald C. Goff, MD, is the Marvin Stern Professor of Psychiatry, vice chair for research in the Department of Psychiatry, and director of the Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research. He has published more than 300 articles on the management and treatment of schizophrenia. Katlyn Nemani, MD, is a research assistant professor of psychiatry. Her research is focused on understanding the bidirectional relationship between systemic disease and psychopathology, particularly the interaction between the nervous and immune systems in people with psychosis. Multidisciplinary Conferences Improve Outcomes in Complex Spine Surgery The post-conference cases showed a significant decrease in total intraoperative complications, massive blood loss, incidental durotomy, delayed extubation, and deep surgical site infections. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health. The multidisciplinary conference yielded a statistically significant decrease in reoperation and readmission rates at both 30 and 90 days. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health. Surgery for adult spinal deformities carries a high rate of intra- and postoperative complications, reoperations, and readmissions. A retrospective cohort study of 263 adult patients led by researchers at NYU Langone Health’s found that implementing a preoperative multidisciplinary conference to discuss high-risk cases led to striking gains in multiple quality and safety metrics. The conference, added to the weekly spine surgery indications conference starting in February 2019, included experts in orthopedic spine surgery, neurosurgery spine, anesthesia, intraoperative monitoring neurology, and neurological intensive care. Compared to 167 consecutive patient cases before the launch of the conference, 96 post-conference cases showed a significant decrease in total intraoperative complications, massive blood loss, incidental durotomy, delayed extubation, and deep surgical site infections. One exception to the overall improvement in complications was an increase in hypotensive episodes requiring vasopressors, a finding the researchers say could be attributable to the higher average age of patients in the post-conference group but one that did not lead to a longer length of stay or higher readmission rate. The multidisciplinary conference, in fact, yielded a statistically significant decrease in reoperation and readmission rates at both 30 and 90 days. Those gains may be attributable to appropriate patient selection and optimization of the surgical plan, according to study co-author , associate professor of orthopedic surgery. “Spinal deformity surgery is one of the most complicated and high-risk operations in our field,” Dr. Fischer says. “This single-center study shows how impactful multidisciplinary conferences are before high-risk, complex spinal deformity surgeries. It’s critical for institutions to develop this protocol to achieve the best outcomes for their patients.” “This single-center study shows how impactful multidisciplinary conferences are before high-risk, complex spinal deformity surgeries. It’s critical for institutions to develop this protocol to achieve the best outcomes for their patients.” New Percutaneous Ablation Method Relieves Pelvic Tumor Pain and Instability￼ X-ray showing screw and cement placement after CT-guided ablation of pelvic lesion. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Safer Intervention for Pelvic Lesions Reduces Pain and Improves Mobility A woman in her 50s presented to the NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn emergency department after a work-related fall. She reported severe pain in her right hip that had persisted for months and x-rays revealed lesions on her spine. Physicians diagnosed her with multiple myeloma with involvement in the spine and pelvis, and surgeons performed a percutaneous stabilization of her spine using bone cement. The traditional surgery for ablation and stabilization of periacetabular pelvic lesions, the modified Harrington procedure, carries a high complication rate. Instead, a team led by Karim Masrouha, MD , assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, performed one of the first surgeries of its kind in the New York metropolitan region. In collaboration with NYU Langone Health’s Division of Musculoskeletal Imaging , the surgical team used a cone beam CT scan and software to map out the precise entry point and trajectory for a minimally invasive pelvic tumor ablation. After the probe-aided ablation, Dr. Masrouha inserted a stainless steel screw and cement to provide stability to the patient’s pelvic bone. “With a tiny incision, it allows us to take care of the tumor, fill in the space with cement, and put in a screw that acts like rebar,” he says. “It’s very clear that this is a safe and minimally invasive technique. It isn’t a cure for the multiple myeloma, but it allows for good pain control, improved function, and a better quality of life.” The morning after the surgery, the patient reported being pain-free in her right hip for the first time in months. After being bedbound for several weeks, she was able to get up and begin walking again on her own. “It’s very clear that this is a safe and minimally invasive technique compared to the conventional alternative,” Dr. Masrouha says. “It isn’t a cure for the multiple myeloma, but it allows for good pain control, improved function, and a better quality of life.” A CT-Guided Approach to Pelvic Tumor Ablation Precise entry and trajectory for probe-aided periacetabular pelvic tumor ablation. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Cone beam CT imaging mapped out the trajectory for precise drilling within the patient’s pelvic bone. A musculoskeletal radiologist then inserted a probe to ablate the tumor. Minimally Invasive Screw Insertion and Cement Fixation Stabilize Pelvis Insertion of stabilizing screw and cement into patient’s right hip. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff After tumor ablation, a 12.5-centimeter-long, 7.3-millimeter-diameter stainless steel screw was inserted to the edge of the tumor’s location and cement was injected through the cannulated screw into the cavity. The screw was then advanced to the far end of the ablated lesion to act as a stabilizing rebar within the pelvic bone. Adapted Cone Beam CT-Guided Screw Placement May Yield More Applications Cone beam CT scanning, with potential to accommodate multiple screw trajectories. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Cone beam CT imaging was initially developed for interventional radiology and cardiology. Applying the mapping and minimally invasive technique to pelvic tumor ablation and stabilization has yielded a safer alternative to traditional surgery. The procedure could be adapted for orthopedic applications requiring multiple screw trajectories, such as stabilization after traumatic injury. Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery, Oncologic Orthopedic Surgery Karim Masrouha, MD, is an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery and director of the New York Ponseti Clubfoot Center. Emerging Trends in Pancreatic Cancer Management Drs. Tamas A. Gonda and Christopher Wolfgang. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In this joint interview, , director of the Pancreatic Disease Program, and , chief of the Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, discuss advancements shaping pancreatic cancer care at . They share insight on how novel biomarkers and endoscopically delivered ablation therapy are impacting detection and treatment, and stress the importance of tumor biology when pushing the limits of surgical resection. Progress in Early Detection What advancements are on the horizon to improve early detection of pancreatic cancer? Dr. Gonda: Biomarkers are certainly thought of as being the future of early detection, making it less invasive and broadly available. There is tremendous excitement in this area. One of the promising biomarkers is actually the early detection of diabetes, especially new-onset diabetes. In collaboration with Lauren H. Golden, MD, , we are learning that following people who newly develop diabetes may lead to identifying individuals at risk for pancreatic cancer. Endoscopic imaging has improved and evolved, and novel imaging modalities keep being developed that increase the sensitivity of this technique. I personally think the addition of molecular imaging—being able to detect certain molecular changes by imaging—will be a game changer. Dr. Wolfgang: Liquid biopsy will also improve early detection. Tumors shed DNA, proteins, and vesicles into the circulation. Doing a blood test and being able to detect low levels of mutant DNA, abnormal protein expression, or vesicles that contain abnormal material holds future promise for a liquid biopsy test. Guiding Treatment with Composite Biomarkers Dr. Wolfgang, you are involved in projects using artificial intelligence to develop blood-based tests for pancreatic cancer. What is your hope for this research? When we resect tumors, we leave systemic disease behind. My research is focused on understanding this minimal residual disease, which manifests as circulating or disseminated tumor cells. Consider a patient who fails neoadjuvant treatment, but we don’t learn that they’ve failed until they progress and are no longer a surgical candidate. If we develop a blood test in which we could know after a few weeks whether the therapy was working or not, we would be able to adjust therapy in real time and get many more people to a potentially curative surgery. In developing these tests there are several factors to consider, including mutations in cell-free DNA and abnormal protein expression or secretion, and thousands of parameters. We are using machine learning to look for correlations between those thousands of data points and outcome. f we develop a blood test in which we could know after a few weeks whether the therapy was working or not, we would be able to adjust therapy in real time and get many more people to a potentially curative surgery.” Minimally Invasive Interventions Dr. Gonda, you are a national leader in endoscopically delivered ablative therapy. Can you tell us more about the promise of this treatment approach? For certain types of tumors of the pancreas and bile ducts, endoscopically delivering thermal ablation or radiofrequency ablation is maturing to be a reasonable treatment approach. While still in the early phases, I think it is going to be an important option for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and pancreatic premalignant lesions, such as cystic lesions. Prevention is almost uniformly equal to surgical resection of a part or all of the pancreas. Endoscopic therapies, whether ablation or injectional therapies, may offer an alternative to surgical approaches. The promise of a minimally invasive approach, especially for pre-cancerous conditions, is very exciting. This is clearly cutting edge, and what makes this work is that at Perlmutter Cancer Center, we function as a multidisciplinary team. We’re not isolated within our specialties. I would second that. As we try to prove equal efficacy of these new less invasive treatments, it is critically important to be in that multidisciplinary discussion. There is no absolute answer to what the right treatment is for some of these patients, and that multidisciplinary discussion is what ultimately leads to the most reasonable and rational decision. “There is no absolute answer to what the right treatment is for some of these patients, and that multidisciplinary discussion is what ultimately leads to the most reasonable and rational decision.” Resecting Complex Tumors Dr. Wolfgang, would you speak to the innovations making it easier to successfully resect complex tumors? In the realm of making the unresectable resectable, there are two aspects: tumor biology and the technical aspects. You can do the perfect complex operation, but if you haven’t considered each patient’s unique tumor biology—that is, the propensity of an individual tumor for microscopic spread throughout the body—you’re not going to help that patient. It’s not necessarily inventing new operations but having an extremely experienced team and pushing the limits of what can be done with surgery in a smart, safe way. The Architecture of Excellent Care NYU Langone Health is now a National Pancreas Foundation Center of Excellence for both pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer. How does this designation influence innovation? As medical centers across the nation build focused pancreatic cancer programs, guidance from the National Pancreas Foundation in what is required for comprehensive care is critically important. Renowned pancreatic cancer experts, Drs. Alex Kimmelman Paul E. Oberstein and Diane M. Simeone, and our numerous colleagues within the , have led the way, and it is exciting that we now offer the same level of multidisciplinary excellence for the care of other pancreatic diseases. Read more from our experts in Tamas A. Gonda, MD, is an associate professor of medicine, chief of endoscopy at Tisch Hospital, and director of the Pancreatic Disease Program within the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology. He is an advanced endoscopist and specializes in the management of complex pancreatic and bile duct disease. Christopher Wolfgang, MD, PhD, is professor of surgery and chief of the Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery. He specializes in the surgical treatment of pancreatic cancer. His research focuses on understanding mechanisms of tumor recurrence to prevent treatment failure. Resolution of a Severe Hip Implant Dislocation with Femur Extraction A displaced hip spacer, destabilized by trochanteric fracture, requires close coordination to secure a permanent implant. Pain Management with Buccal Absorption of CBD Tablets Promising results from an early study evaluating CBD after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Surveying Cultural Preferences for Toe-to-Thumb Transfer Versus Pollicization Research finds no major differences among Eastern and Western populations and surgeons. A Flexible Surgical Alternative for Adolescent Scoliosis VBT yields better correction of fractional curve and L5 tilt than fusion surgery. A First in Arthroscopy: Wireless Camera Surgery Laith M. Jazrawi, MD, chief of the Division of Sports Medicine in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, performed a knee arthroscopy with the ArthroFree System to correct a displaced meniscal fragment causing knee locking in a 65-year-old patient. Minimally invasive arthroscopic surgery in orthopedics has supplanted more traditional and invasive methods for many procedures, but the technique still relies on wired surgical cameras, light cords, and connected power sources. In September, NYU Langone Health took the next big step in this kind of surgery by successfully completing the first arthroscopy in the United States with an entirely wireless camera system that eliminates the need for the power and light cords. , performed a knee arthroscopy with the advanced technology, the ArthroFree System made by Ohio-based medical technology company Lazurite . The first wireless camera for arthroscopy and general endoscopy had won FDA approval in March 2022. Just six months later, Dr. Jazrawi used the new system at to correct a displaced meniscal fragment causing knee locking in a 65-year-old patient. That patient, he says, recovered very well and was back to enjoying activities such as playing paddleball within two weeks. “We’re proud to be the first medical center to use this innovative new technology that allows for more efficiency and flexibility in the operating room.” “We’re proud to be the first medical center to use this innovative new technology that allows for more efficiency and flexibility in the operating room,” says Dr. Jazrawi. Among its potential benefits, the system’s elimination of power and light cords can reduce surgical setup and takedown times and costs while permitting more ergonomic and efficient surgical movements. In addition, the absence of fiber-optic cables may improve patient safety by reducing the risk of burns and healthcare-associated infections. “The use of new types of advanced surgical technologies exemplifies our mission to bring patients the most recent advances in orthopedic surgery to improve outcomes and overall satisfaction,” Dr. Jazrawi says. As a follow-up to his first surgery with the wireless camera, Dr. Jazrawi is already enrolling patients in a new clinical study to investigate wireless arthroscopy benefits and capabilities compared to its traditional counterpart. Two Dexamethasone Doses Are Safe & Effective After Primary TKA While a second dose of IV dexamethasone slightly raises blood glucose levels in the 24-60 hours after surgery, patients were able to maintain glycemic control, with average glucose levels never exceeding the 200 mg/dl threshold for postoperative wound complications.ADAPTED FROM: Arraut J, et al. “Effects of A Second Dose of Dexamethasone on Postoperative Glycemic Control in Diabetic Patients Following Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty.” Oral presentation at American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons Annual Meeting. November 2022. A second dose of IV dexamethasone lowers patients’ use of opioids, with the most significant differences in the first 48 hours after surgery. ADAPTED FROM: Arraut J, et al. “Effects of A Second Dose of Dexamethasone on Postoperative Glycemic Control in Diabetic Patients Following Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty.” Oral presentation at American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons Annual Meeting. November 2022. For patients with diabetes undergoing a primary total knee arthroplasty (TKA), insufficient glycemic control before, during, and after surgery can lead to complications such as surgical-site infections and poor wound healing. Dexamethasone can reduce postoperative pain, nausea, and vomiting. Like other corticosteroids, however, dexamethasone can increase blood glucose levels, raising concerns about whether a second dose administered to diabetic patients undergoing TKA might complicate their recovery. In a retrospective study of 953 TKA patients, NYU Langone Health researchers found that a second dose of dexamethasone temporarily increased glucose levels compared to only one dose. In both groups of patients, however, average glucose levels never exceeded the 200 mg/dl threshold for postoperative wound complications. Furthermore, the two-dose group consumed fewer opioids in the first 48 hours post-surgery. The study revealed no difference in infection rates, delayed wound healing, or other complications within the 90-day postoperative period. “Using dexamethasone for primary total joint replacements, even in diabetic patients, is both safe and effective in reducing pain and reducing inpatient opioid usage without a substantial detrimental effect on maintenance of blood sugar.” , won the best podium presentation award at the annual meeting of the American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons in 2022 for summarizing his team’s initial findings. “My recommendation would be that using dexamethasone for primary total joint replacements, even in diabetic patients, is both safe and effective in reducing pain and reducing inpatient opioid usage without a substantial detrimental effect on maintenance of blood sugar,” he says. Dr. Rozell cautions that diabetic patients must be closely monitored for blood glucose levels. “Clinicians should make sure to utilize a multimodal pain protocol with various non-opioid analgesics that can synergistically work to decrease pain level after surgery,” he adds. The study, he says, affirms that despite its transient effect on glucose control, dexamethasone can be a safe and effective part of that analgesic mix, even for diabetics. Protecting Patients With Obesity From Severe COVID-19 Study shows prior bariatric surgery improves COVID-19 outcomes. Comparing patients who had bariatric surgery (bariatric cases, n = 124) and patients who were eligible but didn’t have bariatric surgery (bariatric controls, n= 496), admission through the emergency department (ED) was 50.8 versus 69.0 percent, ventilation was used for 6.5 versus 13.7 percent, intensive care unit (ICU) admission was 8.1 versus 14.7 percent, length of stay over 1 day was 41.4 versus 59.7 percent, and those deceased at discharge were 6.5 versus 13.7 percent, respectively. ADAPTED FROM: Surg Obes Relat Dis . 2021 Nov;17(11):1840-1845. For patients with severe obesity, bariatric surgery may reduce the risk of hospitalization and death from COVID-19, according to a study published in Surgery for Obesity and Related Diseases The retrospective analysis compared outcomes between patients with COVID-19 and a history of bariatric surgery to a matched control cohort of patients with COVID-19 who were eligible for, but with no history of, bariatric surgery. The researchers used a 1:4 cases-to-controls matching ratio based on age and sex. “Bariatric surgery is an incredibly safe procedure that provides lasting benefits for patients with severe obesity. And now we show that it can also improve the respiratory and inflammatory factors that likely put patients with obesity at increased risk of severe COVID-19.” Among other improved outcomes, prior bariatric surgery was shown to significantly decrease the risk of emergency department admission, mechanical ventilation, prolonged ICU stay, and death after COVID-19 diagnosis. Led by investigators , clinical assistant professor of surgery, and , chief of the Division of Bariatric Surgery, the study suggests that protection against COVID-19 may be an extended benefit of bariatric surgery in this vulnerable patient population. “Bariatric surgery is an incredibly safe procedure that provides lasting benefits for patients with severe obesity. And now we show that it can also improve the respiratory and inflammatory factors that likely put patients with obesity at increased risk of severe COVID-19,” Dr. Jenkins says. Megan Jenkins, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of surgery and associate director of the Surgery Residency Program. She specializes in bariatric surgery. Christine J. Ren-Fielding, MD, is a professor of surgery, chief of the Division of Bariatric Surgery and director of the Weight Management Program. Laparoscopic Fibroid Removal in a Patient with Müllerian Agenesis The patient’s uterine remnant, vulnerable to aggressive fibroid growth. Common Fibroids with a Rare Presentation A 44-year-old woman with a recent diagnosis of Müllerian agenesis presented with worsening lower abdominal fullness and discomfort in the setting of known leiomyomas. Müllerian agenesis, a rare condition in which the Paramesonephric ducts do not develop in female embryos, is frequently associated with the presence of rudimentary uterine structures or remnants. An examination revealed a 12-centimeter immobile mass over the patient’s lower abdomen. A pelvic MRI—the most sensitive diagnostic tool for identifying uterine remnants—further characterized the presence of a 4-centimeter uterine remnant with three dominant leiomyomas. “Although up to 70 percent of women experience leiomyomas by menopause, only 15 cases have been published for women with uterine remnants,” notes , a minimally invasive gynecologic surgeon subsequently consulted by the patient. Dr. Shirazian serves as director of NYU Langone Health’s . “These cases demonstrate the aggressive pathophysiologic nature of fibroids, which can grow and become symptomatic from just a few myometrial cells.” “These cases demonstrate the aggressive pathophysiologic nature of fibroids, which can grow and become symptomatic from just a few myometrial cells.” In light of her worsening symptoms, the patient opted for minimally invasive surgery to definitively manage her condition. A preoperative plan included diagnostic laparoscopy, removal of the uterine remnant with leiomyomas, a bilateral salpingectomy if tubes were noted, and cystoscopy, required by protocol. “Ideally, we want to remove the entire remnant itself, leaving no myometrium for possible recurrence,” says Dr. Shirazian. Following surgery, the patient was discharged on the same day and has experienced complete resolution of symptoms. Importantly, the Center for Fibroid Care offered the patient supportive education and discussion of reproductive options. “Once this patient understood her potential options for assisted reproduction following surgery, she was comfortable proceeding,” says Dr. Shirazian. “Our multidisciplinary approach takes into account the patient’s life goals—which is critical when treating the multi-faceted impact fibroids often have.” Pelvic Imaging Guides Surgical Planning A pelvic MRI shows a uterine remnant impacted by multiple leiomyomas. A patient with Müllerian agenesis presented with worsening lower abdominal fullness and discomfort in the setting of known leiomyomas. Examination revealed a mass over the lower abdomen and pelvic MRI was remarkable for a single rudimentary uterus deviated to the right with three dominant leiomyomas, the largest measuring 5.8 centimeters. Real-Time Surgical Decision-Making with Laparoscopic Survey Pelvic survey reveals an additional uterine remnant. After safe entry was confirmed, a pelvic survey revealed a right uterine remnant with multiple leiomyomas along with an additional left rudimentary uterine remnant and bilateral normal ovaries with atrophic fallopian tubes. To prevent future fibroid growth, the additional remnant would also be removed. Procedure Begins with Bilateral Salpingectomy Surgeon’s view as the fallopian tubes are transected. To begin the procedure, the atrophic fallopian tubes were removed by transecting along their inferior aspect. Symptom-Causing Remnant Is Removed Surgeon’s view as the right rudimentary uterus and its symptomatic leiomyomas are dissected. The avascular plane of the right uterine remnant was transected, then the uterine artery was cauterized and transected. The specimen was rotated to allow transection of the uterine ligament. An Uncomplicated Surgery Resolves Patient Symptoms Surgeon’s view as a smaller, left-side uterine remnant is removed. The left rudimentary uterine horn was then dissected. The specimens were hand morcellated through the umbilical port. Final inspection revealed excellent hemostasis throughout, and the patient was discharged the same day after meeting required milestones. Post-surgery pathology confirmed that neither uterine remnant contained functioning endometrium. More Evidence that EFCT Improves Cesarean Outcomes Researchers further confirm the benefit of the endometrium-free uterine closure technique. High COVID-19 Antibody Levels in Newborns of Women Vaccinated During Pregnancy Findings confirm a significant immune responsewhen mothers received an mRNA vaccine. Fewer Women Plan Pregnancy Following First Wave of COVID-19 Significant changes in pregnancy intention reported among mothers of young children in New York City. Advancing the Profession of Interventional Cardiology More than 40 years ago, the first annual meeting of the first and only national society of interventional cardiologists, the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions (SCAI) , was organized—with the creator of coronary angiography at its helm. Today, the subspecialty has evolved to offer patients many more treatment options, and SCAI is led by a new generation of physicians including , director of NYU Langone Health’s interventional cardiology program. Here, Dr. Rao, who is currently serving his term as SCAI president, discusses the state of the subspecialty and efforts underway at SCAI to advance the profession. An Evolving Subspecialty Dr. Rao, so much has changed within the subspecialty since SCAI was established. What excites you the most? Dr. Rao: The most exciting aspect of the profession has always been the same: We see very sick patients, and our expertise gives us the ability to help them feel better immediately. We can visualize a blockage that caused a patient’s heart attack and, 5 or 10 minutes later, their arteries are wide open and they’re asking to go home. There is an instant gratification there. “We’re constantly evolving the field to help patients feel better and live longer.” The second thing relates to newer developments: We have more technologies than ever to offer patients—more approved interventions and more clinical trials of new devices and drugs. We’re constantly evolving the field to help patients feel better and live longer. For example, we can treat more complex artery blockages, such as 100 percent occlusions, that in the past were not treatable. We are also able to treat patients with complex valve disease or heart failure using new devices that can help them get back to a normal life. National Leadership: The Next Frontier of Patient Care As president of SCAI, what are your leadership priorities for the society? We’ve placed a strong emphasis on research and education. For the first time in SCAI’s history, we are able to fund original research, with three grants awarded to early-career investigators. Their research will be presented at the next annual meeting. We also implemented a fellowship match program for the first time in interventional cardiology. In addition, our efforts have contributed to several legislative wins, including the Cardiovascular Advances in Research and Opportunities Legacy (CAROL) Act, which funds research to understand and prevent out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. That means strengthening initiatives like community CPR training and increasing the number and availability of automated external defibrillators (AEDs). What priorities are next? My utmost priority is to remain at the forefront of trends in patient care. Thanks to innovation in our field, procedures like coronary stenting are moving to the outpatient setting. More than 16 states have endorsed the procedure at ambulatory centers, which is a more patient-centered approach. The challenge is there are still risks to the procedure, so we developed a set of safeguards for quality in the ambulatory setting. SCAI is also at the leading edge of aligning payment with these evolutions in care. Second, we’re putting an increased spotlight on physician wellbeing. Alongside patient risks in the context of cardiac procedures, there are well-known occupational hazards for physicians and providers. Radiation risks, physical demands, and the psychological burden of treating very sick patients all take a toll. For us at SCAI, the question is how do we sustain our members in their careers and support their health and wellbeing? Closer to Home: A Uniquely Personal Approach Looking closer to home at NYU Langone, what are you most proud of accomplishing in your interventional cardiology program? My answer touches on the paradox of being a high-volume center that offers an incredibly personalized approach to care. Our teams at our Cardiac Catheterization Laboratories perform more than 14,000 a year. And we offer all of the best, most advanced technologies and approaches, like radial access, that have made our procedures safer and more effective. Yet on an individual level, the way we treat patients is incredibly personal. With each patient, we work with our noninvasive cardiology and surgery colleagues to figure out the right care at the right time. If that requires an interventional treatment, we will deliver what may be a widely available procedure with a personalized approach that you can only find here. Sunil Rao, MD, is the director of interventional cardiology at NYU Langone Health and director of the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory at Tisch Hospital. His research is focused on the application of radial access interventions to reduce patient risk and improve outcomes. Surgical Reconstruction Resolves Cloaca-Like Deformity After Obstetric Trauma Endoanal ultrasound indicates the degree of separation of the external (EAS) and internal anal sphincters (IAS). Yellow dash marks indicate dehiscence of the sphincter complex 150 degrees. Three Surgeons Collaborate to Repair Rare Traumatic Cloaca A woman in her 40s presented with fecal incontinence subsequent to a fourth-degree laceration during vaginal delivery in her home country. The patient had seen several providers without relief prior to travel to the United States, where she was referred for urogynecology consultation with Christina M. Escobar, MD . Examination revealed an open defect in the perineal body, anal sphincter complex, and rectovaginal septum, with no rectal tone. Traumatic cloaca is a rare presentation, as precipitating injury is typically repaired during childbirth. The condition creates a single cavity involving the rectum and vagina, severely disrupting patient quality of life. “Because it’s so rare, providers often don’t diagnose traumatic cloaca, or may be unsure where to refer patients, leaving women suffering from fecal incontinence,” Dr. Escobar says. “This patient had gone from consults with gynecologists to a colorectal surgeon to urogynecology, but we brought all three specialties together to restore her anatomy.” To plan the reconstruction, Dr. Escobar collaborated with NYU Langone Health colleagues , a specialist in female pelvic medicine and reconstruction, and Marsha A. Harris, MD , a colorectal surgeon with pelvic floor expertise. Dr. Harris takes a special interest in women’s health, frequently partnering with colleagues in gynecology and urology to repair pelvic floor dysfunction. “By pooling our pelvic floor expertise, our team expanded our toolbox three-fold and dramatically improved the patient’s quality of life.” Christina Escobar, MD The approach involved dissection of the rectovaginal septum and sphincteroplasty; multidisciplinary collaboration was critical to identifying, isolating, and repositioning the structures. “There is a major advantage to having a urologist, gynecologist, and colorectal surgeon side-by-side working on these adjacent areas,” says Dr. Rosenblum. Following overnight observation, the patient was released with a care plan in place. “This is a patient who was told her problem was not fixable, who lived with fecal incontinence for 14 years,” says Dr. Escobar. “By pooling our pelvic floor expertise, our team expanded our toolbox three-fold and dramatically improved the patient’s quality of life.” A Cloaca-Like Deformity Secondary to Obstetric Trauma A clear demarcation of vaginal and anal mucosa. A preoperative physical exam revealed an open defect in the perineal body, anal sphincter complex, and rectovaginal septum measuring 6 centimeters in length and representing a cloaca. Endoanal Ultrasound Reveals Full Extent of Clinical Findings Endoanal ultrasound demonstrates the degree of separation of the external (EAS) and internal anal sphincters (IAS). Yellow dash marks indicate dehiscence of the sphincter complex 150 degrees. An endoanal ultrasound, the preferred imaging for surgical planning, confirmed findings of the patient’s digital rectal exam, revealing significant separation of the external from the internal anal sphincter. Re-Approximation of the Rectal-Vaginal Structures Surgeon’s view of the reconstruction to re-approximate the internal (A) and external (B) anal sphincter. For the reconstruction, an initial horizontal incision was made and the rectum and vagina separated. The internal and external anal sphincter were identified and dissected, then re-approximated. A Successful Reconstruction Surgeon’s view of the completed cloacal repair, with drain in place. Once the internal and external sphincter were repaired, the previously mobilized rectal mucosa was advanced under the reconstructed sphincter and attached to the perianal skin. The tissues were closed and a drain was placed. Christina M. Escobar, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and obstetrics and gynecology, and associate director of Simulation in Obstetrics and Gynecology. Surging Interest in Specialized Fertility Care Experts at the reported performing nearly 40 percent more oocyte retrievals in 2021 compared to the preceeding year. While somewhat surprising given the pandemic, the trend is in accordance with both experts and models pointing to the rapidly growing interest in egg freezing and in vitro fertilization (IVF). “The fact that we were in the throes of a pandemic did not affect our egg numbers, embryo fertilization rate, or pregnancy rate,” says Frederick L. Licciardi, MD , director of the Oocyte Donation Program at the fertility center. Dr. Licciardi and colleagues recently reported in Clinical and Experimental Obstetrics and Gynecology that the pandemic did not influence outcomes Considering the growing demand in assisted reproductive technology (ACT), infertility specialist Jennifer K. Blakemore, MD , says she and colleagues are focused on making treatments less stressful and more accessible. “Infertility doesn’t care who you are, where you are, and what kind of funds you have, it affects everybody,” says Dr. Blakemore. “The more ways we can provide patients with information on the expanding options and opportunities related to reproductive health, the better.” “The fact that we were in the throes of a pandemic did not affect our egg numbers, embryo fertilization rate, or pregnancy rate.” The Need to Address Stress Stress as a side effect of assisted reproduction is an important part of discussions with patients. “I tell patients ahead of time, ‘This is going to be stressful for you, it’s normal.’” says Dr. Licciardi. While high levels of stress are anticipated in patients undergoing IVF, the center’s previous research revealed egg freezing to be at least as stressful as IVF . Younger and younger women are seeking the service for diverse, stress-provoking reasons, listing concerns related to age, health status, career stage, and a lack of immediate prospects for a partner. To further examine stress in egg freezing, Dr. Licciardi is leading an ongoing study involving surveys and interviews with patients before and after oocyte cryopreservation. “I’m hoping these studies will help providers who are offering egg freezing understand the complex decisions and intense stress their patients are facing,” Dr. Licciardi says. “Keep your eyes open for signs of disruption and stress in your patients and address it, be open.” “Keep your eyes open for signs of disruption and stress in your patients and address it, be open.” Dr. Blakemore recently authored a review in Fertility and Sterility highlighting the need for individualized and comprehensive counseling for those seeking oocyte cryopreservation. “Patients need to be cautioned and counseled that we don’t have perfect statistics yet on things like how frozen eggs work 10 to 20 years from now and all of those different aspects,” Dr. Blakemore says. However, retrospective studies of the center’s oocyte thaw outcomes are beginning to address these unknowns, suggesting egg freezing may be superior to IVF for delayed childbearing. Expanding Access to Specialized Fertility Care Despite exciting advances in ART, disparities exist in accessing and utilizing these specialized services. NYU Langone investigators have recently reported on sociodemographic differences in the use of fertility services among women with cancer as well as the utilization of planned oocyte cryopreservation among Black obstetrician gynecologists One new study from fellow Ashley Wiltshire, MD, used a unique case of primary ovarian insufficiency in a 36-year-old Black woman to shed light on how systemic barriers hinder some patient’s abilities to reach their fertility goals. The authors outline recommendations including full spectrum fertility coverage as well as noting the importance of providers committing to address inequities in fertility treatment. “We can do a better job of educating ourselves—internal medicine providers, OBGYN providers, primary care physicians and beyond—with more information on fertility statistics and services in order to reach more people and provide better care,” says Dr. Blakemore. Frederick L. Licciardi, MD, is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology and director of the Oocyte Donation Program at the NYU Langone Fertility Clinic. His research interests focus on in vitro fertilization, oocyte donation, and embryo development. Jennifer L. Blakemore, MD, is a clinical assistant professor and director of resident research in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Her research focuses on endometriosis and infertility in women. Altering the Gut Microbiome May Aid Response to Drug in RA Methotrexate, the first-line medication for rheumatoid arthritis, works as a monotherapy in only about 50 percent of patients , necessitating a trial and error approach to find the right combination of medications for each patient. If methotrexate fails to control a patient’s rheumatoid arthritis after three months, as a general rule of thumb, clinicians try a different strategy. “That’s a critical amount of time during which someone’s disease is potentially progressing and becoming more destructive,” says rheumatologist Rebecca B. Blank, MD, PhD “One of our thoughts was, can we shift this microbiome toward microbes that don’t break down methotrexate as much?” Supported in part by NYU Langone Health’s Clinical and Translational Science Awards Scholars Program , Dr. Blank is exploring whether differences in the gut microbiome may help predict the responsiveness of a patient’s rheumatoid arthritis to methotrexate. In addition, she’s assessing whether strategic alterations to the microbiome might enhance the medication’s effect. A Consequential Microbial Shift Prior research led by rheumatologist , director of NYU Langone’s Microbiome Center for Rheumatology and Autoimmunity, found that certain gut microbial DNA signatures predict methotrexate responsiveness . From those results, Dr. Blank and Dr. Scher hypothesized that some gut microbes may be metabolizing methotrexate into metabolites and preventing the drug from reaching a patient’s joints. “One of our thoughts was, can we shift this microbiome toward microbes that don’t break down methotrexate as much?” Dr. Blank says. Another question is whether the microbiome could be pushed into a more immunoregulatory state, one that reduces the “leaky gut” phenomenon that can spur inflammation. Based on data from animal studies of rheumatoid arthritis and from clinical trials in inflammatory bowel disease and pediatric obesity, Dr. Blank narrowed her focus to microbes that produce short-chain fatty acids as their fermentation products. These bacterial products have been shown to ameliorate inflammatory arthritis in mice by reducing inflammation at the joint and decreasing inflammatory T helper 17 cells while increasing systemic regulatory T cells. One short-chain fatty acid, butyrate, seems to have the most significant effect. In humans, some evidence suggests that butyrate supplements yield a positive feedback loop that shifts the gut toward more butyrate-producing microbes A New Focus on Butyrate Combined, the findings point toward the possibility that supplementing methotrexate with butyrate in patients with new-onset rheumatoid arthritis might shift the gut microbiome toward a state of reduced inflammation and even decreased methotrexate metabolism, helping to explain the microbial signature predicting methotrexate responsiveness. In a pilot trial involving 16 patients newly diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis and receiving methotrexate, Dr. Blank and colleagues are testing just this question. As part of the study, the researchers aim to determine whether butyrate supplementation correlates with an increase in T regulatory cells and a decrease in inflammatory T cells, like the shift seen in mice. In addition, the research could reveal the role of butyrate producers in the methotrexate response signature. “If butyrate does have an impact on the microbiome and an impact on downregulating inflammatory responses systemically, it could be an adjunct to a number of different rheumatoid arthritis medications.” So far, gut microbiome analyses from eight of the patients have revealed lower microbial alpha diversity than healthy controls at baseline. After four months of butyrate supplementation, however, their microbiomes are showing significant shifts toward higher alpha diversity, compared with historical controls of rheumatoid arthritis patients given methotrexate alone. In particular, Dr. Blank and colleagues found a relative increase in the bacterial taxa known to produce short-chain fatty acids like butyrate. “I think what’s happening is that you’re creating more diversity of microbes, which then out-compete some of these other microbes that are metabolizing the methotrexate into inactive products,” she says. “You’re essentially pushing the pathogenic microbes out of the way.” Testing a Potential Adjunct Therapy Supported by a grant from the Arthritis Foundation , Dr. Blank is expanding her focus with a small pilot study on patients whose first-line methotrexate therapy is starting to fail. Before switching the patients to a new regimen, she’s assessing whether butyrate supplementation and a corresponding shift in the gut microbiome might prolong methotrexate’s efficacy. If her pilot trials yield promising results, Dr. Blank hopes to partner with other academic centers on a placebo-controlled clinical trial to assess the benefits of supplementing methotrexate with butyrate. “If butyrate does have an impact on the microbiome and an impact on downregulating inflammatory responses systemically,” she says, “it could be an adjunct to a number of different rheumatoid arthritis medications.” Rebecca B. Blank, MD, PhD, is an instructor of medicine who specializes in rheumatology. Her research focuses on the role of the gut microbiome in pathogenesis and amelioration of inflammatory arthritis, particularly, rheumatoid arthritis. Presenters at the 2023 ASCO Annual Meeting This June, our researchers and physicians join colleagues from around the world at the American Society of Clinical Oncology’s 2023 annual meeting in Chicago. This year’s theme is Partnering with Patients: The Cornerstone of Cancer Care and Research Friday, June 2 Clinical Science Symposium New Partners for EGFR-Mutant Lung Cancer : 1–2:30 pm Saturday, June 3 ARTISTRY-6: Nemvaleukin Alfa Monotherapy in Patients with Advanced Mucosal and Cutaneous Melanoma Abstract: TPS9592 Poster Board: 355a : 1:15 pm The Validity of a Machine Learning Algorithm in Predicting Response to Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in Melanoma Faisal Fa’ak, MBBS 9523 286 Ultrasensitive Detection and Monitoring of Central Nervous System Tumors from Plasma Using Personalized Whole-Genome CTDNA Profiling 2064 421 Long-Term Outcomes of Pembrolizumab (Pembro) in Combination with Gemcitabine (Gem) and Concurrent Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy (RT) as Bladder Sparing Treatment for Muscle-Invasive Urothelial Cancer of the Bladder (MIUC): A Multicenter Phase 2 Trial Minas P. Economides, MD 4509 3 pm Sunday, June 4 Large Scale Evaluation of Pulmonary Nodule Workup: A Real-World Study of Over 150,000 Patients in New York State Vamsidhar Velcheti, MD, FACP, FCCP 8559 186 : 8 am Monday, June 5 Education Session Defining the Patients at Risk for Developing Pancreatic Cancer Diane M. Simeone, MD : 9:45 am Where Do We Stand with Immunotherapy for Small-Cell Lung Cancer? Sally C. M. Lau, MD, MPH : 3 pm Oral Abstract Presentation Preliminary Results From the Female Asian Nonsmoker Screening Study (FANSS) Elaine Shum, MD 8510 : 11:30 am The Interventional Radiologist’s Perspective Ryan M. Hickey, MD 4:30 pm SpotCheck: A Skin Cancer Diagnostic Clinical Trial Comparing Dermoscopy-Enhanced Telemedicine to In-Person Evaluation Jenne P. Ingrassia 1604 198 1:15 pm Tuesday, June 6 Disparities in Outcomes Among Hospitalized Unhoused Patients with Cancer in the US Kanan Shah, MD 6502 8 am Publication Only Abstract Real-World Clinical Outcomes in a U.S. Asian Population with Stage IV NSCLC Treated with Osimertinib (Osi) Stratified by EGFR Subtype Abstract : e21128 NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AUA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health’s experts presented their research at the 2024 American Urological Association (AUA) annual meeting in San Antonio, Texas. See below for notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year. Panel Discussion: 49-Year-Old Woman with Symptomatic Large-Volume Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma NYU Presenter: 8:00–8:25AM Implementation Determinants: What Gets in the Way of Evidence-Based Practice? Urologic Oncology Research Symposium Danil V. Makarov, MD 1:18–1:27PM Optimizing Dissemination of Urological Research NYU Presenters: 4:08–4:18PM Update in Management of Upper-Tract Urothelial Carcinoma American College of Osteopathic Surgeons (ACOS) 9:30–10:30AM Barriers to Peri- and Post-Menopausal Women Using Vaginal Estrogen Therapy Include Cost and Fear of Side Effects Poster and Podium, PD24 Sabrina Stair, MD 11:20–11:30AM Response to Primary Chemoablation with UGN-102 in Patients with New or Recurrent LG IR NMIBC: Post Hoc Analysis of the ATLAS Trial Poster and Podium, PD30-09 2:20–2:30PM Unmet Sexual Health Needs and Preferences of Female Partners of Patients with Prostate Cancer Poster and Podium, PD28-12 2:50–3:00PM Five-Year Oncologic Outcomes Following Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation (PPGCA) PD39: Prostate Cancer: Localized: Ablative Therapy II Eli Rapoport, BS NYU Moderator: 7:40–7:50AM Panel Discussion: Tricks and Tips of Penile Prosthesis Surgery 9:55–10:25AM Genetic Testing in Prostate Cancer: The Role of the Urologists International Prostate Forum 11:10–11:25AM Crossfire: Controversies in Urology: MUS vs. Bulking in a 55-Year-Old Woman SUI 2:10–2:40PM Upper Urinary Tract: Buccal Graft Update After 10-Year Experience Society of Urologic Robotic Surgeons (SURS) Brian Chao, MD Ninety-One Percent Success with Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation In March 2017, urologic oncologists , initiated a prospective outcomes registry to capture both oncological and functional outcomes following primary partial gland cryoablation (PGCA). Now, these researchers report encouraging oncological outcomes in the largest and most rigorous five-year follow-up study for primary PGCA conducted to date. Among 298 patients with localized, intermediate-risk disease who elected primary PGCA, the five-year freedom-from-failure rate was 91 percent. In addition, rates of freedom-from-recurrence of in-field, out-of-field, and overall clinically significant disease were 79 percent, 74 percent, and 58 percent, respectively. [Read a case report from the study here “These results are paradigm-changing for select patients with localized prostate cancer who elect cryoablation over radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.” “We now counsel men with intermediate-risk disease who are considering cryoablation that, at five years, they have a 91 percent chance of avoiding the morbidity of whole gland treatments,” says Dr. Lepor. “These results are paradigm-changing for select patients with localized prostate cancer who elect cryoablation over radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.” Results from the study will be presented at the upcoming 2024 Annual Scientific Meeting of the American Urological Association (AUA). Building Upon Early Success Previously published data revealed high rates of functional recovery following primary PGCA. The researchers published early functional outcomes in The Canadian Journal of Urology in June 2022 and in in January 2023. Notably, they observed no urinary incontinence or rectal injuries, an improvement in lower urinary symptoms, and less adverse impact on sexual function following primary PGCA when compared to whole-gland treatments. “In our experience, over two-thirds of men with intermediate-risk disease will elect PGCA over radical prostatectomy due to better quality-of-life outcomes.” “Sexual function and incontinence outcomes following PGCA are far superior to those achieved following whole gland interventions,” says Dr. Wysock. “In our experience, over two-thirds of men with intermediate-risk disease will elect PGCA over radical prostatectomy due to better quality-of-life outcomes.” With respect to early oncological outcomes, the researchers have demonstrated primary PGCA to reliably ablate the index lesion and support a low rate of in- and out-of-field disease recurrence at three years. Need for Active Surveillance According to the researchers, the findings emphasize the importance of active surveillance following focal therapy. They explain that many of the clinically significant recurrent cancers are low-volume Gleason pattern 4, making them amenable to active surveillance based on the ProtecT trial Regarding the surveillance protocol, Dr. Lepor recommends PSA testing, multiparametric MRI, and a surveillance prostate biopsy at specified intervals following primary PGCA. He currently performs for-cause biopsies based on digital rectal exam, PSA kinetics, and suspicious MRI lesions. “A salvage ablation is performed for the majority of in- and out-of-field clinically significant recurrences requiring intervention,” Dr. Lepor explains. “Most cases requiring whole-gland salvage treatment are managed with salvage radiation therapy.” Advancing Focal Therapy To date, 459 men who underwent primary PGCA have enrolled in the prospective cohort study, Dr. Lepor says, and these five-year data strengthen support for the use of focal therapies in men with high-volume, low-risk and intermediate-risk clinically localized prostate cancer. “In 2012, I was confident focal therapies would emerge as a reasonable option for intermediate-risk disease, especially when preserving quality of life is a high priority,” Dr. Lepor says. Now, after a decade of critically evaluating both functional and oncological outcomes following focal therapies, and specifically cryotherapy , Dr. Lepor believes PGCA should be widely available to men with localized, intermediate-risk disease. While NYU Langone offers a range of focal therapy techniques, including high-intensity focused ultrasound, radiofrequency ablation, and electroporation, the overwhelming majority of focal therapies are performed using cryotherapy due to its superior oncological outcomes. “Cryotherapy is the most versatile energy source and, in our hands, achieves the highest level of oncological control, which is further supported by our five-year outcomes,” Dr. Lepor says. Herbert Lepor, MD, is the Martin Spatz Chair of the Department of Urology, chief of urology, and director of the Smilow Comprehensive Prostate Cancer Center, part of Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in urologic oncology, with expertise in radical prostatectomy and focal ablation. Aquablation: The Versatile ‘Swiss Army Knife’ A 57-year-old male presented with a history of treated thyroid cancer and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). His international prostate symptom score (IPSS) was 25 and an upper tract ultrasound revealed a 160-gram prostate. Some improvement in urinary symptoms was seen with tamsulosin and finasteride. However, the impact of treatment on sexual health was significant. Intermittent self-catheterization was also required for high postvoid residual volume, and the patient did not wish to continue this. An office cystoscopy confirmed bladder outlet obstruction secondary to benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH), a common cause of LUTS, and the patient was counseled on surgical options. After considering GreenLight, transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), anatomical endoscopic enucleation of the prostate (AEEP) with Holmium, Aquablation, and simple robotic prostatectomy, the patient elected for the Aquablation procedure. The following Case of the Month illustrates how Aquablation safely and effectively treats a very large prostate size normally managed by simple prostatectomy or AEEP, but with lower rates of urinary incontinence and ejaculatory dysfunction. The case also exemplifies why I consider Aquablation to be the Swiss Army knife of surgical therapies for BPH. Aquablation received de novo clearance from the FDA for the resection and removal of prostate tissue in males suffering from LUTS due to BPH. The technique is appropriate for all prostate sizes, including very large prostates >150 mL, and is adaptable to any type of bladder outlet obstruction. The technique significantly improves IPSS and surpasses all other BPH procedures in preserving ejaculatory function. In the case presented here, the patient reported an IPSS of 25 before treatment. After Aquablation, his IPSS dropped to 4, and he reported preserved erectile and ejaculatory function; his only medication was finasteride. When the patient first presented to our care, he experienced nocturia three times per night, urinary frequency every two hours, urinary urgency, and a weak urinary stream. He achieved significant improvement in LUTS on tamsulosin but eventually went into acute urinary retention requiring Foley catheterization. At that time, an upper tract ultrasound confirmed the presence of two normal renal moieties, a normal-appearing bladder, and an enlarged prostate with a large median lobe. He then increased tamsulosin to 0.8 mg daily, started finasteride, and subsequently voided spontaneously. However, high postvoid residuals required self-catheterization four times daily. An office cystoscopy was completed, confirming a normal anterior urethra and trilobar prostate hyperplasia. Urodynamic study was not performed due to his cystoscopic findings, prostate size, and lack of relevant comorbidities. Digital rectal exam demonstrated a large, smooth prostate. The PSA was 2.1 ng/dL. The patient elected for Aquablation after being counseled on his surgical options. He did not wish to continue intermittent catheterization, did not tolerate the retrograde ejaculation of tamsulosin, and wished to preserve his erectile and ejaculatory function. Aquablation: The Clinical Trials Treatments of bladder outlet obstruction range from medical therapy to minimally invasive procedures to open surgery. The goal of surgical therapy is simply to reduce outlet resistance. However, techniques must be effective in symptom score reduction and durability and be associated with minimal peri- and postoperative complications. Other goals should be a short learning curve and minimal sexual dysfunction. Among the newer, novel resective techniques is Aquablation therapy, delivered by the PROCEPT BioRobotics’ AquaBeam Robotic System. It has attracted attention as a minimally invasive technique that is as effective and safe as other resective treatments, but with minimal to no negative impact on erectile or ejaculatory function. The Aquablation procedure. Source: PROCEPT BioRobotics. Aquablation employs a robotically controlled, room-temperature waterjet to remove obstructing prostate tissue . The AquaBeam Robotic System received de novo clearance from the FDA in December 2017. It is indicated for the resection and removal of prostate tissue in males suffering from LUTS due to BPH. The safety and efficacy of Aquablation therapy with the AquaBeam Robotic System have been rigorously investigated. The WATER study was a randomized, pivotal trial comparing Aquablation therapy against TURP. It showed that Aquablation provided the same durable outcomes and lower surgical retreatment rate as TURP at five years for prostate sizes 30 to 80 mL while maintaining a superior ejaculatory profile. The WATER study enrolled 181 patients ages 45 to 80 years with urinary symptoms due to BPH across 17 sites in the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand, demonstrating superiority and noninferior primary efficacy results compared to TURP . Other studies have demonstrated noninferiority and even superiority to TURP The WATER II study enrolled 101 male patients with prostates 80 to 150 mL between the ages of 45 to 80 years with urinary symptoms due to BPH at 16 sites in the United States and Canada. The WATER II study demonstrated significant improvement in both symptom scores and urinary flow rates, with similar length of stay reported in the WATER study A meta-analysis of four clinical trials (WATER, WATER II, OPEN WATER, and FRANCAIS WATER) with 425 patients (volumes 20 to 150 mL) and a one-year follow-up showed an average IPSS improvement of 16 points, 20.5 mL/second urinary peak flow rates, 3.3-point improvement in quality of life, 0 percent erectile dysfunction, 0.5 percent incontinence, and only a 10.8 percent incidence of ejaculatory dysfunction Based on the above data and other sources, the American Urologic Association included Aquablation therapy in its 2019 Practice Guidelines for the “Surgical Management of Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms Attributed to Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia” . Today, Aquablation therapy provides a minimally invasive option in a field already populated by Optilume, iTIND, UroLift, Rezum, GreenLight, TURPs, AEEPs, and simple robotic or open simple prostatectomies. It has a short learning curve of about 10 to 20 cases and a high level of predictability and reproducibility Aquablation: The Procedure The patient’s Aquablation procedure was performed in the operating room under general anesthesia . An SIUI Apogee 2300 biplane transrectal ultrasound was first inserted for optimal prostate imaging. The 24 Fr handpiece was then inserted transurethrally into the patient’s bladder and then mounted on the bed-mounted robotic articulating arm. Using real-time prostate visualization and PROCEPT planning software on the CPU, the waterjet angles and a surgical contour were planned and the waterjet robotic ablation begun. As the waterjet moved from median lobe to prostate apex, adenomatous tissue was removed with a pendulum-like motion. Once the jet reached the ejaculation safety zone, its pattern was converted to a “butterfly-cut” mode to avoid injury to the ejaculatory ducts on the prostatic urethral floor. A second full pass was performed, and then the handpiece was removed. A 26-Fr resectoscope was inserted, clot evacuation was done, and focal bladder neck cauterization was performed. Minor resection of treated prostate tissue was resected and sent for pathology. Finally, a 24 Fr 3-way Coude catheter was inserted and the patient was observed on traction. Postoperative continuous bladder irrigation (CBI) was performed until the following day. Post-procedure prostate cavity and catheter insertion. Source: PROCEPT BioRobotics. The patient was discharged on postoperative day one and passed a trial of void on postoperative day two with a postvoid residual of 120 mL. At a six-week follow-up, the patient had no complaints. He had a negative urine culture and an IPSS of 4. He had preserved erectile and ejaculatory function, and his only medication was finasteride. One of the three distinctive and attractive features of Aquablation is its versatility. Some procedures are only appropriate for certain types of prostate sizes or configurations. Aquablation has real potential to dominate the BPH minimally invasive therapy market because of its ability to be the Swiss Army knife of BPH surgical therapies. It can safely and effectively treat all prostate sizes (20 grams and up) and can also treat various forms of bladder outlet obstruction, including high-riding bladder necks, prostates with median lobes of any size, lateral lobe compression, very long prostates, prostate synechiae, and overhanging anterior prostate tissue. It is also safe and effective in patients with prior treatments, such as UroLift, Rezum, brachytherapy, and external beam radiation. Another enticing feature is Aquablation’s ability to treat all prostate sizes. Until now, surgical management options for men with very large prostates (>150 mL) were limited to simple prostatectomy (open, laparoscopic, or robotic) and AEEP (Holmium and thulium). These surgical options are associated with increased surgical risks, such as increased operative time, risk of bleeding, transfusions, ejaculatory dysfunction, and a prolonged indwelling catheter time . The proliferation of AEEP has been limited due to its steep learning curve and a relative paucity of training opportunities. After earlier reports of bleeding in the WATER and WATER II trials, PROCEPT developed an optimal hemostasis technique of focal bladder neck cauterization that included removal of frondular ablated tissue at the bladder neck as well as any targeted focal cautery of any obvious arterial bleeding. In April 2021, a study of more than 2,000 patients undergoing this technique yielded a transfusion rate of 0.8 percent for treated prostates with volumes of 20 to 363 mL . Further meta-analysis of the WATER, WATER II, and OPEN WATER trials report a composite transfusion rate of 0.1 percent The other complication deserving of discussion is ejaculatory dysfunction. Aquablation preserves anterograde ejaculation rates in over 90 percent of men, better than any other resective BPH procedure. It is important to note that Aquablation is the only procedure where de novo ejaculatory dysfunction remained low despite larger prostate sizes (80 cc to 150 cc) . This potential complication is getting more discussion time preoperatively, now that men and their partners are more educated about which treatments are associated with ejaculatory dysfunction and which ones are not. The days of treating urologists downplaying the importance of male orgasmic function in their patients are numbered as more men are understanding that retrograde ejaculation and anejaculation are often inferior in sensation to anterograde ejaculation. Conclusion Physicians counseling patients with obstructive BPH should be aware of Aquablation therapy as it is able to comparatively improve IPSS scores, has superior durability to TURP, has minimal complications, and is superior to other resective BPH procedures in preserving ejaculatory function. Aquablation is adaptable to any type of bladder outlet obstruction and is appropriate for any prostate size. The learning curve is short, and operative times are consistent and reproducible. 1. Zorn et al. (2022). Aquablation treatment for benign prostate hyperplasia: Current standardized procedure. Journal of Endourology. 2. Oumedjbeur et al. (2023). Aquablation versus TURP: 5-year outcomes of the WATER randomized clinical trial for prostate volumes 50-80 mL. Canadian Journal of Urology. PubMed 3. Plante et al. (2019). Symptom relief and anejaculation after aquablation of transurethral resection of the prostate: Subgroup analysis from a blinded randomized trial. BJU International. 4. Gilling et al. (2020). Three-year outcomes after Aquablation therapy compared to TURP: Results from a blinded randomized trial. Canadian Journal of Urology 5. Bhojani et al. (2023). Aquablation therapy in large prostates (80-150 mL) for lower urinary tract symptoms due to benign prostatic hyperplasia: Final WATER II 5-year clinical trial results. Journal of Urology. 6. Elterman et al. (2021). Meta-analysis with individual data of functional outcomes following Aquablation for lower urinary tract symptoms due to BPH in various prostate anatomies. BMJ Surgery, Interventions, & Health Technologies. 7. Dornbier et al. (2020). The new American Urological Association benign prostatic hyperplasia clinical guidelines: 2019 update. Current Urology Reports. 8. El Hajj et al. (2022). Learning curve in aquablation: An international multicenter study. World Journal of Urology. 9. MacRae et al. (2016). How I do it: Aquablation of the prostate using the AQUABEAM system. 10. Nguyen et al. (2020). Operative time comparison of Aquablation, Greenlight PVP, ThuLEP, GreenLEP, and HoLEP. 11. Elterman et al. (2021). Focal bladder neck cautery associated with low rate of post-Aquablation bleeding. 12. Elterman et al. (2020). Transfusion rates after 800 Aquablation procedures using various haemostasis methods. 13. Nguyen et al. (2020). Waterjet ablation therapy for endoscopic resection of prostate tissue trial (WATER) vs WATER II: Comparing Aquablation therapy for benign prostatic hyperplasia in 30–80 and 80–150 mL prostates. BJU International 14. Plante et al. (2019). Symptom relief and anejaculation after aquablation or transurethral resection of the prostate: Subgroup analysis from a blinded randomized trial. Christopher E. Kelly, MD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Urology. His areas of clinical interest include benign prostatic hyperplasia and male urinary and sexual dysfunction. Inclusive Study Tests Safety of Shingles Vaccination in Patients with Lupus A schematic of the phase 4 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, non-inferiority crossover study to evaluate Shingrix in patients with lupus. Herpes zoster, or shingles, is more common in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) compared to the general population. An unresolved question has been whether the recombinant Herpes zoster subunit vaccine, Shingrix, is safe to use in patients living with lupus. A recently launched phase 4 clinical study , led by rheumatologist , an associate professor of medicine at NYU Langone Health, aims to evaluate the safety of Shingrix in patients with diverse baseline clinical activities, spanning different ages, and with varying levels of immunosuppressant exposures. “Our goal is to establish the safety of the vaccine in a real-world patient population and gain a better understanding of the immune responses.” “Anecdotal reports suggest that the Shingrix vaccine poses no significant safety concerns for patients with stable lupus,” Dr. Saxena says. “Our goal is to establish the safety of the vaccine in a real-world patient population and gain a better understanding of the immune responses.” The study, which is being offered at NYU Langone and the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, is open to adult patients with stable disease (i.e., no lupus flare(s) at the time of enrollment). Patients can be receiving many types of immunosuppressive or biologic agents for SLE treatment. While accrual is at an early stage, Dr. Saxena and the research team plan to conduct an interim analysis in the second half of 2025. They hypothesize that Shingrix administration will be non-inferior to placebo with respect to the risk of moderate or severe SLE flare(s) and that immunogenicity of the vaccine in lupus patients will be at least 50 percent of levels observed in healthy subjects from prior large clinical trials. “We hope the findings will have therapeutic implications and help patients and their families feel more confident in their decision to vaccinate,” Dr. Saxena says. Amit Saxena, MD, is an associate professor of medicine. He specializes in researching and treating systemic lupus erythematosus. Unveiling the Origins of Early Lupus Nephritis New funding from the NIH will help NYU Langone Health researchers explain mechanisms that underlie autoimmune conditions, including lupus nephritis. Growing evidence suggests that a milder and early form of lupus nephritis, Class II, can progress to more-advanced disease states in some patients, underscoring the critical need for a deeper understanding of the disease pathway. Under the umbrella of AMP Autoimmune and Immune-Mediated Diseases (AMP AIM), computational biologist , is developing and utilizing multiomic approaches to elucidate early disease pathogenesis in lupus nephritis. Launched in December 2021, the AMP AIM program seeks to deepen understanding of the cellular and molecular interactions that lead to inflammation and autoimmune diseases. NYU Langone is a lead center in this ambitious effort, which has attracted a total of $58 million in public and private funding. , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology in the , is contact principal investigator of the program’s lupus team. “We want to find ways to slow or halt disease progression.” “Directing our efforts toward understanding early disease pathogenesis is important,” Dr. Ruggles says. “We want to find ways to slow or halt disease progression.” Multimodal Data Analysis The analysis, led by Dr. Ruggles in collaboration with Dr. Buyon, focuses on multimodal single cell sequencing integration, starting with scRNA-seq and global and spatial metabolomics to connect transcriptome-predicted metabolic states and spatially resolve metabolic changes. Additional data modalities—including CITE-Seq, spatial transcriptomics, and multiplexed tissue imaging—will also be applied when available. These combined analyses, in turn, will complement ongoing AMP AIM working group efforts and help connect and harness existing data for enhanced discovery. “We’re leveraging our group’s expertise in precision medicine, extensive experience working with computational multiomics in immunological disorders and ongoing collaborations with multiple AMP AIM teams,” Dr. Ruggles says. These varied methods, she explains, will be first applied to 16 Class II lupus nephritis research biopsy cores, which will then be compared to 150 cores from patients with more advanced lupus nephritis, including Class III, IV, V, and mixed, to better understand the molecular underpinnings of early disease and potential drivers of progression. Seeking Predictive Biomarkers Despite continued efforts, the identification of robust and reproducible urine- and blood-based biomarkers for predicting and tracking lupus nephritis has been challenging. This is mainly due to the heterogeneity of the condition, which can vary from silent disease to rapidly progressive kidney damage. According to Dr. Ruggles, identifying unique transcriptomic and metabolomic signatures associated with early disease is key to the long-term goal of developing predictive biomarkers. “We’re searching for robust molecular patterns in the data,” she explains. “Uncovering a gene or metabolite signature that correlates with a clinical phenotype would be a game changer.” Given the recent advancements in technology, Dr. Ruggles foresees a shift toward optimized and personalized management of patients, aided by a battery of next-generation biomarkers. A Glimpse into the Future Looking to the future, this extensive molecular analysis could be applied in multiple ways, notes Dr. Ruggles, including for personalized medicine. “By tapping into a patient’s distinct molecular profile, we could tailor treatments to their specific needs.” “The possibilities for personalized medicine in this space are vast,” Dr. Ruggles says. “By tapping into a patient’s distinct molecular profile, we could tailor treatments to their specific needs.” In addition, consolidating and integrating data from all AMP AIM initiatives could have broader implications for other autoimmune disorders. Beyond lupus, for instance, the researchers plan to apply these methods to psoriatic arthritis samples from the AMP Psoriatic Response and Onset: Genes Radiology Environment Skin and Synovium ( AMP PROGRESS ) study and to rheumatoid arthritis samples at NYU Langone to assess molecular and phenotypic changes in those diseases as well. Autoimmune Disease, Computational Biology, Bioinformatics Kelly V. Ruggles, PhD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of integrated sciences in the Office of Medical Education. Her research focuses on understanding human health and biology using data science, data visualization, and predictive modeling. Drug Combination May Skirt Venetoclax Resistance Resistance to venetoclax and other BH3 mimetics in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) occurs due to a rapid increase in mitophagy, the process by which cells break down and turnover mitochondria, according to a new study from investigators at NYU Langone Health and , the findings build on earlier insights from the team suggesting that targeting mitochondria may serve as a novel approach to overcome venetoclax resistance “Our preclinical findings suggest that combining BH3 mimetics like venetoclax with either MFN2 or general mitophagy inhibitors could possibly serve as a future therapy for acute myeloid leukemia.” “Our preclinical findings suggest that combining BH3 mimetics like venetoclax with either mitofusin 2 (MFN2) or general mitophagy inhibitors could possibly serve as a future therapy for acute myeloid leukemia, as current drug treatments are stalled due to drug resistance,” says study senior investigator , the Hermann M. Biggs Professor of Pathology and chair of the Specific inhibition of MFN2 is of particular interest as upregulation of the mitophagy regulator was identified as a leading mechanism of venetoclax resistance. Challenging Resistance BH3 mimetics function by inhibiting the pro-survival signaling proteins relied upon by cancer cells for unchecked cell growth. Yet, despite their promise for treating AML and other cancer types, resistance arises after prolonged exposure. Combinatorial BH3 mimetic treatments are being investigated as one approach to improve efficacy; however, experts anticipate resistance to these strategies as well. “Acute myeloid leukemia is notoriously difficult to treat, with fewer than a third of those affected living longer than five years after their diagnosis, so it is important to maximize the impact of existing therapies,” says study co-lead investigator Xufeng Chen, PhD , an instructor in the Department of Pathology. Christina Glytsou, PhD, a former postdoctoral researcher at NYU Langone and now an assistant professor at Rutgers University, also served as co-lead investigator. Mitophagy: A New Target In the new publication, the team describes how mitochondrial clearance represents a key tactic deployed by AML cells to evade cell death triggered by BH3 mimetics. “Because mitochondria serve as a hub for the transmission of cell death signals, their sequestration through mitophagy effectively silences these alarms,” says Dr. Chen. “Because mitochondria serve as a hub for the transmission of cell death signals, their sequestration through mitophagy effectively silences these alarms.” Compared to healthy volunteers, the researchers report that patients with AML display increased expression of MFN2 as well as several other genes associated with mitophagy. These mitophagy genes are also upregulated in patients with poor responses to BH3 mimetics compared to high responders. Further analyses showed that genetic ablation or pharmacologic inhibition of MFN2 can sensitize human AML cells to various BH3 mimetics. While in animal models of AML, concomitant administration of a BH3 mimetic together with chloroquine, a general autophagy and mitophagy inhibitor, resulted in delayed AML progression and enhanced survival compared to both single agent–treated and untreated mice. Trials Ahead The research team now plans to design a clinical trial to test whether chloroquine, when used in combination with venetoclax, prevents drug resistance in patients with AML. Future studies will also focus on optimizing MFN2-inhibiting compounds like MFI8, a recently developed small molecule that inhibits mitofusins . The molecule was shown in the new study to enhance the efficacy of BH3 mimetics in in vitro AML experiments. Dr. Aifantis has received research funding from AstraZeneca. Iannis Aifantis, PhD, is the Hermann M. Biggs Professor of Pathology and chair of the Department of Pathology. His research focuses on mechanisms of both lymphoid and myeloid leukemia initiation and progression. Xufeng Chen, PhD, is an instructor in the Department of Pathology. His research focuses on understanding the regulation of leukemogenesis and the acquisition of drug resistance in myeloid leukemias and developing novel combinational therapies for circumventing drug resistance to targeted therapies and immunotherapies. Identifying Markers of Parkinson’s Disease Progression A current challenge to understanding the pathophysiology and progression of Parkinson’s disease (PD) is identifying and validating markers for the preclinical and prodromal stages, says Giulietta M. Riboldi, MD, PhD , a research assistant professor of neurology at NYU Langone Health. To that end, NYU Langone researchers have joined a landmark global study aimed at identifying markers of disease progression to reduce PD disability. The Parkinson’s Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) —a groundreaking observational study across nearly 50 international sites and sponsored by The Michael J. Fox Foundation—is investigating the development of clinical features, digital outcomes, and biomarkers of PD progression in patients with manifest PD, patients with prodromal symptoms, and healthy control volunteers. “A systematic collection of data and biosamples from patients with Parkinson’s disease at different centers around the world represents a unique platform for new research discoveries and result validation in the field,” Dr. Riboldi says. A Transformative Study Since its inception in 2010, the PPMI study has become a cornerstone of PD research and continues to advance new treatments. Analyses from its dataset and biosample library have deepened understanding of PD and informed the design of dozens of therapeutic trials. With the goal of providing a more detailed and nuanced inquiry into PD development, The Michael J. Fox Foundation announced an expansion of PPMI to increase the size and diversity of enrollment cohorts. The expansion has potential downstream applications including earlier detection of those at risk, and the development of innovative new tests, treatments, and technologies. “These markers could lead to earlier, faster diagnosis, and the development of therapies to slow, stop, or prevent the disease.” “Each PPMI volunteer contributes to the effort toward markers that are unique to people with Parkinson’s disease or who are at risk of Parkinson’s disease,” says Dr. Riboldi. “These markers could lead to earlier, faster diagnosis, and the development of therapies to slow, stop, or prevent the disease.” Prodromal Parkinson’s Disease and REM Sleep Behavior Disorder Prodromal symptoms of PD are non-motor, and idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a well-established risk factor for neurodegenerative disease, with approximately 40 to 65 percent of patients with RBD also being diagnosed with a synuclein-related disorder during their lifetime. Research efforts are underway to find a treatment for RBD . Nonetheless, with no preventive agent for PD, recruiting volunteers with prodromal PD who don’t exhibit motor symptoms requires large-scale innovative screening and recruiting efforts. “When the motor symptoms of Parkinson’s disease manifest, the majority of the dopaminergic cells in the brain are lost,” Dr. Riboldi says. “Studying early biological changes in prodromal stages of PD can help to clarify triggering mechanisms of the disorder and identify biomarkers for early intervention.” Although significant challenges to accrual remain, efforts are now underway at NYU Langone and collaborating institutions to recruit participants with idiopathic RBD for the study. Since idiopathic RBD is the strongest predictor of future development of α-synucleinopathies, it could be used as a model to understand the clinical and molecular evolution of the preclinical/prodromal phase of pathological α-synuclein—with the ultimate goal of initiating disease prevention studies in the prodromal phase. PPMI’s Ambitious Expansion updated PPMI clinical study protocol has set a target enrollment of approximately 4,000 participants across the nearly 50 sites worldwide. Study participants are mainly identified through a stage risk paradigm using a custom-built remote platform called PPMI Online In addition to identifying and further characterizing biomarkers, the researchers anticipate that the updated findings may inform further studies investigating PD therapeutics including clinical trials targeting synuclein, leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), glucocerebrosidase (GBA), and others. “We hope that this effort will help identify reliable biomarkers for improving the diagnosis of PD and the development of effective disease-modifying treatments,” Dr. Riboldi explains. These efforts complement ongoing work at NYU Langone’s Parekh Center for Interdiscipinary Neurology , which are conducting basic science and clinical research that can help to illuminate the common mechanisms underlying neurodegenerative disorders. Parkinson’s Disease & Movement Disorders Giulietta M. Riboldi, MD, PhD, is a research assistant professor of neurology. Her research focuses on the discovery of new genetic variants associated with Parkinson’s disease and rare movement disorders. Neurological Impacts of Long COVID: Finding Pathways Toward Treatment NYU Langone is one of 10 databank sites seeking to help researchers find the root cause of lingering symptoms. Unraveling Glial Contributions to Alzheimer’s Disease New research homes in on transcriptomic differences in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Ushering Neurology into a New Era of Collaboration Leaders of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology discuss the vision, opportunities, and challenges. Building International Bridges in Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Research Executive director of the Fresco Institute discusses how the unique partnership advances clinical care, research, and training. Rare Disorder Frames Unique Care Needs in Pelvic Organ Prolapse Pelvic organ prolapse is common, affecting up to 50 percent of women over their lifetime. Although treatment can be straightforward, in a recent article in Case Reports in Urology , urogynecologist , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health share three patient cases to draw attention to the distinctive care needs of individuals with pelvic organ prolapse in the setting of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS). A rare hereditary disorder, EDS impacts connective tissue and collagen synthesis. The condition not only predisposes patients to gynecologic and obstetric complications like pelvic organ prolapse but also increases the risk of surgery, which is often required for symptom relief. “There’s very little in the published literature about the nuanced care required for proper management of pelvic organ prolapse in patients with EDS,” says Dr. Brucker, director of the Division of Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery. “There’s very little in the published literature about the nuanced care required for proper management of pelvic organ prolapse in patients with EDS.” Safe and effective management of prolapse in this group requires a care team with diverse expertise and a deep understanding of patient expectations for treatment, he adds. Benefiting from Multiple Specialties Conservative symptom management is often the first line of treatment for pelvic organ prolapse. Rheumatologists and physiatrists offer treatments that aim to alleviate pain or discomfort or strengthen and stabilize pelvic floor muscles and connective tissue. If nonsurgical methods do not deliver the desired outcomes, reconstructive surgery is an option. Yet while surgery is associated with high success rates, Dr. Brucker emphasizes caution for patients with EDS. “Surgical planning for pelvic organ prolapse in individuals with hereditary connective tissue disorders requires additional care because of tissue characteristics, concomitant conditions, and perioperative risk such as propensity to bleed,” says Dr. Brucker. “Surgical planning requires additional care because of tissue characteristics, concomitant conditions, and perioperative risk such as propensity to bleed.” In the recent report, he and co-authors describe the distinct challenges tissue characteristics pose for surgeons and stress the importance of gentle perioperative and postoperative techniques that avoid cutaneous complications and minimize dressing changes to protect healing tissue. The potential for worsening dysautonomia, hemodynamic instability, trachea collapse, or spontaneous pneumothorax during anesthesia administration also requires extra caution. In addition, postoperative gastrointestinal complications are more common for these individuals, making collaboration with gastroenterology key. Younger Patients and Family Planning Although pelvic organ prolapse is often associated with aging, women with EDS and other connective tissue disorders tend to develop prolapse as early as their late 20s, says Dr. Brucker, without experiencing the known risk factors of pregnancy or menopause. Prolapse symptoms have a more dramatic negative impact on the quality of life for younger women with EDS, he adds. “Younger women may have different treatment goals and considerations that need to be considered,” says Dr. Brucker. “When discussing surgical options for younger patients with pelvic organ prolapse and EDS, it’s important to discuss family planning and future pregnancy.” “Younger women may have different treatment goals and considerations that need to be considered.” The authors describe the case of a 19-year-old female with EDS for which conservative management and physical therapy did not resolve a persistent vaginal bulge secondary to prolapse. The patient wished to pursue a surgical option. After considering the pros and cons of robotic uterosacral ligament suspension and sacrohysteropexy, the patient agreed to surgery, confirming no interest in future pregnancy. Following the successful surgery, abdominal pain in recovery required consultation with general surgery, and she reported notable improvement in vaginal bulge and pelvic pain at a follow-up six months later. Comprehensive, Quality Care Other cases in the report include those of two women, aged 38 and 52, with EDS, pelvic organ prolapse, and urinary incontinence. Robotic-assisted surgeries, including hysterectomy and sacrocolpopexy, successfully resolved their symptoms. Notably, collaboration with gastroenterology elevated the quality of care delivered to the 38-year-old patient. “Because she was multiparous and had defecatory problems, the urogynecology team involved other specialties to determine if rectal repair was necessary,” says Dr. Brucker. “It wasn’t, but because we had early input from gastrointestinal and colorectal surgery colleagues, there was already postoperative support in place.” “While the underlying pathology may be similar, no two individuals with pelvic organ prolapse and EDS are alike,” stresses Dr. Brucker. “We believe that collaboration with our colleagues in other specialties delivers the best outcome for each patient. Urology, Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery, Uro-Gynecology Benjamin M. Brucker, MD, an associate professor of urology and of obstetrics and gynecology, is director of the Division of Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery. His research interests include overactive urinary bladder, urinary incontinence, urodynamics, and pelvic organ prolapse. Extending the Cardioprotective Effects of Colchicine A recent retrospective study helps fill in gaps related to the cardiovascular benefits of colchicine by including a population generally excluded from the key clinical trials—patients with gout already taking long-term colchicine to prevent flares. The research was led by rheumatologist Michael Toprover, MD Gout, Urate, and Crystal Deposition Disease . NYU Langone researchers Daria B. Crittenden, MD Michael H. Pillinger, MD , served as co-investigators on the study. While colchicine—a foundational treatment for gout—has recently been shown effective in reducing major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in those with established coronary artery disease (CAD), data until now have remained limited on whether these benefits extend to high-risk patients with gout. “Patients with gout with the highest consistency of colchicine use had lower odds of MACE compared to those with more irregular use.” “We stratified patients by consistency of colchicine use, finding that patients with gout with the highest consistency of colchicine use had lower odds of MACE compared to those with more irregular use,” says Dr. Toprover. “We also saw an increase in risk when active colchicine users paused taking the medication.” Equilibrating and Reducing Risk For the study, the researchers collaborated with colleagues from the Veterans Affairs New York Harbor Healthcare System to review over 178,000 veteran patient records, identifying a total of 355 patients with gout and established CAD. Of these patients, 239 were categorized as colchicine users, and the rest, 116, had never filled a prescription for colchicine. Overall, the analysis revealed that the odds of MACE were similar between colchicine users and nonusers. However, the team also found that colchicine users had a higher baseline cardiovascular risk profile compared to nonusers, suggesting that colchicine may have served to equilibrate risk between the two groups. Dividing the patients into four quartiles based on the consistency of colchicine use revealed even more striking findings. The authors reported that patients in the highest continuous colchicine-use quartile, defined as taking the drug for more than 70 percent of the observation period, had lower odds of MACE than those in the lowest three quartiles, with no difference in baseline cardiovascular risk. Moreover, colchicine users had a lower rate of MACE during periods of active use compared with inconsistent use. “We believe these results demonstrate that consistent colchicine use in gout patients provides cardioprotective effects.” “We believe these results demonstrate that consistent colchicine use in gout patients provides cardioprotective effects,” Dr. Toprover says. “Patients with consistent use appear to derive more benefit than those with inconsistent use.” Future Research According to Dr. Toprover, prospective randomized trials are needed to study colchicine’s long-term cardiovascular benefit in gout patients, with the potential to impact the standard of care for all gout patients. “One hypothesis is that colchicine may stabilize plaque during acute rupture or erosion, minimizing downstream thrombosis and end-organ ischemia,” he says. “We want to add to the growing body of literature supporting the use of colchicine in high-risk gout populations.” Rheumatology, Gout Michael Toprover, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Medicine and director of the Gout Treatment Center at NYU Langone’s Center for Arthritis and Autoimmunity. His research and clinical work focus on gout, pseudogout, and other crystal-induced arthritides. Scar Dancing Syndrome: The Seven Year Twitch The back and surgical scar of a patient with scar dancing syndrome. Proper Diagnosis and Treatment Brings Spasm Relief After being injured in 9/11, a retired firefighter underwent an extensive posterior thoracic laminectomy and fusion surgery for resulting degenerative spine disease. While the surgery was uncomplicated, 3 months after the procedure he developed powerful involuntary muscle spasms surrounding the surgical scar. The movements continued 24/7, persisting in sleep and causing pain, insomnia, and difficulty breathing. After seeing multiple specialists including several neurologists, he received no formal diagnosis and saw no improvement despite receiving various medications and procedures. His movements had been present for 7 years by the time he met Steven J. Frucht, MD , director of NYU Langone Health’s Division of Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders, in July 2021. “When he first presented, I discussed with him that he had an unusual, peripheral movement disorder, likely a form of peripheral myoclonus,” Dr. Frucht says. After examination, he was diagnosed with scar dancing syndrome, a very rare form of peripheral myoclonus that manifests in the weeks to months after surgery at the site of the surgical incision. The condition is classified as a peripherally-induced movement disorder , and while the pathophysiology remains unclear, it is thought to be due to aberrant reinnervation of the incised muscles with ephaptic transmission to surrounding neurons. “The management of peripherally-induced movement disorders is extremely challenging as most cases are refractory to standard treatments,” says Patrick Drummond, MD , a clinical assistant professor of neurology. “Botulinum toxin is the most commonly used treatment for symptomatic cases, but with a success rate of only 20 percent.” “The management of peripherally-induced movement disorders is extremely challenging as most cases are refractory to standard treatments.” Using ultrasound and electromyography, Dr. Drummond was able to inject botulinum toxin accurately and safely into the muscles involved, which remarkably provided the patient complete and sustained relief for the first time in 7 years. “Interestingly, the treatment effect of the injections has persisted longer than our initial expectations,” Dr. Drummond says. “Based on these results, we’re planning further studies to confirm the effectiveness of botulinum toxin in such patients.” An Extensive Surgery X-ray of the patient’s spine following posterior thoracic laminectomy and fusion surgery. In 2013, a 62-year-old retired firefighter, injured in 9/11, underwent an extensive posterior thoracic laminectomy and fusion surgery for resulting degenerative spine disease. Powerful Involuntary Muscle Spasms A view of the patient’s back and surgical scar. While the surgery was uncomplicated, in the 3 months following the patient developed powerful involuntary muscle spasms surrounding the surgical scar on his back. The continuous movements were present for 7 years but received no formal diagnosis despite evaluation by multiple specialists. A Successful Treatment Provider’s view as botulinum toxin is administered with the aid of ultrasound and electromyography. At NYU Langone Health, the patient was diagnosed with scar dancing syndrome. Ultrasound and electromyography were used to guide the delivery of botulinum toxin to the impacted muscles, providing complete and sustained relief for the first time in years. Parkinson’s & Movement Disorders Patrick Drummond, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of neurology. His research interests center on Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders including apraxia, ataxia, balance disorders, blepharospasm, cervical dystonia, chorea, corticobasal degeneration, dystonia, and essential tremor. Steven J. Frucht, MD, is a professor of neurology and director of the Division of Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders. His clinical practice focuses on Parkinson’s disease, dystonia, myoclonus, tremor, tics, chorea, and a variety of less prevalent movement disorders. Safely Stopping Hydroxychloroquine in Older Patients with Lupus Jill P. Buyon, MD; and Peter M. Izmirly, MD Hydroxychloroquine is a mainstay for treating patients with lupus, but long-term use can increase the risk of retinal toxicity. The absence of data on the effects of ending treatment, however, has made this a challenging area for clinical decision-making. While withdrawing the drug after a relatively short-term period in younger patients can increase the risk of lupus flares, any potential impact of withdrawing it after long-term use in older patients remains poorly understood. Funded by a major new grant from the NIH , researchers at NYU Langone Health will investigate whether discontinuing hydroxychloroquine in older patients deemed clinically stable can be done safely. An earlier NIH planning grant helped the collaborators demonstrate the feasibility of a full clinical trial. “This all started from listening to our patients and coming up with an idea for testing whether stopping the drug after long-term use had any merit.” “Two of the most common questions that our patients ask are, ‘What are the side effects of this drug?’ and ‘Do I have to take this forever?’” says rheumatologist , who will serve as a principal investigator along with , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology and director of NYU Langone’s Ophthalmologists have reported an increase in retinal toxicity among older patients after years of hydroxychloroquine use. “At what point do you say that, potentially, risks could outweigh benefits?” asks Dr. Buyon. The new multisite study, Stopping Hydroxychloroquine in Elderly Lupus Disease, or SHIELD, should fill a significant knowledge gap in the current treatment paradigm. A Closer Look at Older Patients Dr. Izmirly, Dr. Buyon, and colleagues began discussing the idea after observing how well many of their older patients were faring. “Many expressed enthusiasm about the possibility of being weaned from a lifelong course of hydroxychloroquine,” Dr. Izmirly says. “This all started from listening to our patients and coming up with an idea for testing whether stopping the drug after long-term use had any merit.” The team’s preliminary retrospective data suggested no difference in flare rates between stable patients 55 years or older who stopped taking hydroxychloroquine and those who continued on it. The new placebo-controlled, double-blind trial will offer a more definitive assessment by recruiting about 330 patients who are 60 years or older, have no evidence of active lupus, have taken hydroxychloroquine for at least seven years, and aren’t taking immunosuppressants or high-dose steroids. “We hope to couple this project with cutting-edge basic science so that we can gain new insights into the immunologic status of older patients with lupus.” The study will randomly divide participants into one group that will stay on the drug and a second that will switch to a placebo. Both groups will be followed for one year to assess whether they experience any mild, moderate, or severe flares. “We hope to couple this project with cutting-edge basic science so that we can gain new insights into the immunologic status of older patients,” Dr. Buyon says. “If patients do flare, we will have a unique opportunity to evaluate potential biomarkers of the flare that have never been looked at in a population of this age.” Importantly, the trial will include multiple safety mechanisms to ensure that any signal of a lupus flare will trigger a rapid intervention, notes Dr. Izmirly. Building on a Unique Research Infrastructure The trial, Dr. Buyon adds, will benefit greatly from the medical center’s wide-reaching lupus program , leveraging its Specimen and Matched Phenotype Linked Evaluation , or SAMPLE, clinical registry, representing a highly diverse patient population of over 1,000 individuals. “We see patients at three sites, from all walks of life. We’re uniquely positioned to be able to offer this study to patients of all backgrounds,” she says. Presenters at the 2023 AAN Annual Meeting In April, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Neurology’s 2023 annual meeting in Boston. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year ( see a full listing of NYU Langone presenters here Walk Your Dizzy Patients! Gait Assessment as a Screening Tool for Posterior Circulation Stroke Session: S3 – Cerebrovascular Disease and Interventional Neurology: Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Population Health Jose L. Torres, MD Kara R. Melmed, MD : 1 pm Use of Simulation to Develop Telestroke Skills in Trainees : S10 – Utilizing Varied Modalities to Impact Learning and Make Curricular Changes Authors Kaitlyn Lillemoe, MD Sakinah B. Sabadia, MD Perrin A. Pleninger, MD Brandon Giglio, MD Tyler E. Smith, MD Elina Zakin, MD Ariane Lewis, MD Sondra R. Zabar, MD : 5:06 pm A Prospective Study of Optimal Dosing Strategies of Levetiracetam for Seizure Prophylaxis in Critically Ill Patients : S4 – Neurocritical Care : 1–3 pm Teaching Neurology Trainees to Provide a Terminal Diagnosis Using Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OCSE) : P1 – Education, Research and Methodology: Resident Education 1 : Mordechai Smith, MD; : 8–9 am Facing the challenges of chief resident year: A standardized experiential simulation leadership curriculum S13 – Evaluating Diversity, Mitigating Bias, and Overcoming Challenges in Residency Nada G. Abou-Fayssal, MD Aaron S. Lord, MD Aaron Nelson, MD Sara K. Rostanski, MD Cen Zhang, MD 11:27 am Tuesday, April 25 Longitudinal Cognitive Screening Findings in Pediatric MS vs. Pediatric Controls and Adult MS in a Multi-center Cohort S31 – MS Clinical Decision Making and Special Populations , Allan George, MA : 3:30–5:30 pm Is Fatigue Response to tDCS Mediated by Change in Affect? An Open-label tDCS-MRI Study S27 – MS Neuroimaging 2:48–3 pm Remotely Supervised tDCS for Persistent Post-Traumatic Headache in Veterans (ReStore) P7 – Neuro Trauma and Sports Neurology: Symptoms and Therapies 8–9 am Symptom stability throughout Ocrelizumab infusion cycle in patients with Multiple Sclerosis: final results of SYMptom Burden on Ocrelizumab, a Longitudinal Study (SYMBOLS) P7 – MS Therapeutics 1 Cheongeun Oh, PhD , Tamar Bacon African-Americans with Multiple Sclerosis Have a Higher Proportion of B-Cell Lineage Cells in Their Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Than White Patients P9 – MS Special Populations 5:30–6:30 pm Wednesday, April 26 Vigilance Improves in People with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and Fatigue following Repeated Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) Sessions Paired with Cognitive Training Delivered at Home S38 -Neuro-Rehabilitation Catherine Cho, MD : 3:54–4:02 pm Longitudinal Brain Volume Findings in an Outpatient Practice of Young People with MS P11 – MS Neuroimaging 2 11:45 am–12:45 pm Thursday, April 27 One year follow-up of neurologic symptoms in non-hospitalized neurology outpatients with post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC) S49 – General Neurology Sujata P. Thawani, MD, MPH 5:06 pm Seminar Session Brain Fog Post-COVID and Intersection with Neurodegeneration C195 – Sequelae of COVID-19 1–3 pm Presenters at the 2023 AACR Annual Meeting This April, NYU Langone Health’s Perlmutter Cancer Center researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Association for Cancer Research annual meeting in Orlando, Florida. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and fellows this year. Saturday, April 15 The lymph-borne melanoma proteome conditions lymph nodes for metastasis : 8:30–8:50 am Cancer cell states and plasticity in drug-induced adaptation Gustavo Starvaggi França, PhD Plenary Session PL01 – Beating KRAS: A 30-Year Overnight Sensation 4:15–6:15 pm Sunday, April 16 A personalized cancer vaccine, mRNA-4157, combined with pembrolizumab versus pembrolizumab in patients with resected high-risk melanoma: Efficacy and safety results from the randomized, open-label Phase 2 mRNA-4157-P201/Keynote-942 trial 12:45–1 pm 396 / 22 – Role of PHF8 in resistance to melanoma targeted therapies Senior Author Eva Hernando-Monge, PhD : 1:30–5 pm Monday, April 17 Telehealth Research and Innovation for Veterans with Cancer (THRIVE) Scott E. Sherman, MD : 2:58–3:06 pm 1794 / 28 – Targeting mammalian SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complexes to improve T cell-based cancer immunotherapies Lead Author Elena Battistello, PhD : 9 am–12:30 pm 2283 / 30 – An immunosuppressive ectoenzyme-expressing T cell population is associated with non-responsiveness to immune checkpoint blockade in metastatic melanoma patients : Ankita Mitra, PhD CT052 / 10 – A phase 1/2 randomized study of imvotamab monotherapy and in combinationwith loncastuximab tesirine in relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas Catherine S. Diefenbach, MD SY26-01 – Mapping cellular plasticity in tumor progression and drug resistance Itai Yanai, PhD : 10:45–11:05 am 2819 / 10 – Genome-wide CRISPR screen identifies NANP as a radio-sensitizing target of GBM by regulating NF-κB pathway CT028 – A first-in-human phase 1 study of LY3537982, a highly selective and potent KRAS G12C inhibitor in patients with KRAS G12C-mutant advanced solid tumors Joshua K. Sabari, MD : 2:35–2:45 pm 3511 – Melanoma-shed, lymph-borne CSPG4 conditions the pre-metastatic lymph node niche : Haley duBois Amanda W. Lund, PhD : 2:37–2:52 pm Tuesday, April 18 SY17 – The Duplicitous Tumor Microenvironment : 12:30–2 pm MS.ET01.01 – New Tricks for Known Targets: Novel Approaches to Inhibit Oncogenic Signaling Janice Mehnert, MD 2:30–4:30 pm Health equity approaches to cancer prevention and control Chau Trinh-Shevrin, DrPH : 7–7:45 am Wednesday, April 19 Late Breaker LB291 / 4 – Uncovering gene fusions with 3D genomics: from clinical validation to actionable insights for undiagnosable solid tumors LB354 / 22 – 9p arm loss is an important predictor of immune evasion in several human cancers Author Joy Bianchi, PhD Unlocking Success in Blood & Marrow Transplantation Blood and Marrow Transplant Program director shares advances driven by outpatient services, haploidentical transplant, and more. Repeat Biopsy Helps Catch Cancer in Patients with Suspicious Prostate Lesions Study suggests patients with PI-RADS 4 or 5 ROI with an initial negative biopsy should be promptly re-evaluated. Accelerating Telehealth Research for Cancer Care Researchers at a first-of-its-kind center will study the impact of telehealth technology on cancer care in veterans. Metabolic Enzymes Mark New Targets in Bladder Cancer Key glycolytic enzymes acting as oncogenes may provide a novel path to overcoming cisplatin resistance. Assessing Sexual Health After Partial Gland Cryoablation Study offers a two-year view of erectile function following PGCA. Intestinal Bloom of Gut Bacterium Linked to Lupus Flares Significant gut microbiome instability was observed in patients with lupus that included transient growth spikes of RG and several other pathogenic species. ADAPTED FROM: Ann Rheum Dis . 2023;82:1315-1327. A genetic basis for the overgrowth of certain RG strains in patients with lupus flares is proposed. The researchers identified 34 genes that may provide the bacteria a growth advantage in an inflamed gut and isolated specific bacterial lipoglycans recognized as inflammatory triggers. New research Annals of Rheumatic Diseases sheds light on the role that a specific gut bacterium may play in triggering flares and serious symptoms in people with severe systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In the study, researchers observed that significant blooms of Ruminococcus (blautia) gnavus (RG) are common during high-disease activity but never seen in healthy counterparts. They also identified an immunologic response to the bacterium that may contribute to the inflammation associated with disease flare-ups. Prior research by lead investigator and rheumatologist-immunologist , has shown that RG blooms themselves weaken the gut wall barrier, prompting the release from the gut of bacterial factors that stoke an overactive immune response and inflammation. “These findings are the strongest to date showing the silent growth of the pathobiont R. gnavus is a disease driver of active flares in patients with lupus nephritis.” “These newest findings are the strongest to date showing the silent growth of the pathobiont is a disease driver of active flares in patients with lupus nephritis,” says Dr. Silverman. The RG gut bacterial blooms appear to trigger a cascade of immunologic activity associated with inflammation. From the RG strains isolated during flares, researchers identified 34 genes with established links to the bacterium’s growth in patients with inflammation. The team also investigated the patients’ immune response to the bacteria and isolated specific bacterial lipoglycans known to trigger inflammation. The lipoglycans were common in RG strains in patients with lupus, but not in the study’s healthy control group. The presence of RG blooms concurrent with lupus flare-ups, along with the immune responses to the RG bacteria, suggests a biological pathway for lupus that could be targeted with future treatments. “As we continue to uncover how lipoglycans from bacteria trigger an immune response—and, in turn, inflammation—the hope is that we might turn to less toxic antibacterial therapies that target bacterial imbalance rather than dampen the immune system that protects us from infections like COVID,” Dr. Silverman says. Immunology Gregg Silverman, MD, is the Mamdouha S. Bobst Professor of Internal Medicine in the Department of Medicine and a professor in the Department of Pathology. He specializes in elucidating the immunologic factors underlying lupus and other inflammatory diseases. Steering Precision Radiation Oncology into a New Era of Collaboration Riccardo Lattanzi, PhD, and David J. Byun, MD NYU Langone Health is launching a new research program in advanced imaging and precision radiotherapy, with a unique vision to foster collaborative models that will co-localize clinicians and researchers with expertise in radiology, radiation oncology, medical physics, and cancer biology. Working together, this new team will develop novel precision radiation therapy platforms to more precisely target and treat cancer. The program is led by David J. Byun, MD , a radiation oncologist at Riccardo Lattanzi, PhD , an MRI scientist and a professor of radiology. Here, they discuss how their different footholds in clinical and translational science, as well as the ambitious multidisciplinary partnerships they are forging across NYU Langone, are poised to position the institution as a hub for innovation in cancer care. Advancing Precision in Cancer Treatment As co-leaders of the new research program, could you elaborate on your roles and the program’s mission? Dr. Lattanzi: The creation of this interdisciplinary research program is a collaborative effort between the Departments of , as well as key partners from industry. I’m currently the director of the Center for Biomedical Imaging and training group chair for the at NYU Langone, and will be responsible for the imaging aspects of the new program. We anticipate this new initiative will allow for greater synergy between imaging researchers and radiation oncologists at the institution. The partnerships we’ve developed with Philips and Elekta, two major companies in the field, will help us fund some of our projects and serve as a critical resource for the clinical translation of new techniques we plan to develop for precision radiotherapy. “One of the most striking aspects of our collaboration is that we are, from inception, equal partners with a shared vision leading this research effort.” Dr. Byun: As a radiation oncologist, I have a special clinical and research focus on advanced imaging–guided radiotherapy. At the core of our mission is for this partnership to foster a spirit of collaboration between our world-renowned departments. One of the most striking aspects of our collaboration is that we are, from inception, equal partners with a shared vision leading this research effort. Benefits of the MR-Linac The cornerstone of the research program will be the MRI-Linear Accelerator (MR-Linac). Could you explain the significance of this technology? The Unity MR-Linac machine combines high-resolution MRI and a photon linear accelerator to treat tumors more precisely than currently available radiograph-based techniques. The technology will help to overcome many of the issues we commonly encounter within the conventional radiation treatment paradigm. With this novel platform, we can now adapt and eventually react in real time to anatomic changes, personalizing our treatment plan rather than using a “one-size-fits-all” approach. What we’re even more excited about is the potential for leveraging the unprecedented amount of longitudinal high-resolution MR images generated during radiation treatment to further our mission of image-informed, biologically driven radiation therapy. Adding to what Dr. Byun said, MR-Linac technology can potentially solve issues associated with inter-patient variation in radiation sensitivity, for example by allowing for treatment tailored to a patient’s unique tumor biology. Importantly, by combining morphologic information with quantitative biomarkers extracted from MRI, we’ll be able to monitor treatment response for each patient and make adjustments if needed to the radiation treatment plan. Adapting to Variability What current issues in radiation oncology research will the new program focus on addressing? We plan to develop novel quantitative MRI methods to monitor tumor and normal tissue response to radiation at the biophysical level and adapt the dose during treatment on a patient-specific basis. The Center for Biomedical Imaging is one of the world’s leading research centers in the field of MRI, and we have many researchers eager to translate their advanced imaging techniques for the MR-Linac. “The Center for Biomedical Imaging is one of the world’s leading research centers in the field of MRI, and we have many researchers eager to translate their advanced imaging techniques for the MR-Linac.” One of the most active areas of cancer biology and radiation oncology research is furthering our understanding of underlying tumor heterogeneity and normal tissue toxicity. While we currently accept that treatment response and side effects may vary from patient to patient with the same diagnosis and treatment, we have yet to fully elucidate the underlying mechanisms of such observed variability. With this partnership, we have a unique opportunity to answer many of these pressing questions by bringing together the best clinical trialists, cancer biologists, and quantitative imaging scientists. Our effort will lead to the development and clinical validation of novel genomic and imaging-based biomarkers that will translate to the bedside. A Focus on Application We plan to leverage our research program as a vehicle to increase the translation of new discoveries from bench to bedside. In achieving this goal, our plan over the next few years will be to further federal-level grant support, strengthen the relationship with our industry partners, and establish collaborations with experts beyond our two departments. Thus, it will also be imperative that we actively disseminate the knowledge gathered by our program’s efforts to the greater medical community. As we continue to integrate our understanding of basic science and clinical medicine, we will be able to accelerate the transfer of these discoveries to the practice of radiation oncology for the benefit of our patients. David J. Byun, MD, is a radiation oncologist specializing in the management of genitourinary cancer and co-lead of the research program in advanced imaging and precision radiotherapy. His research and clinical interests center around the utilization of cutting-edge imaging and radiotherapy techniques to enhance the treatment of prostate cancer. Riccardo Lattanzi, PhD, is a professor of radiology, director of the Center for Biomedical Imaging, and co-lead of the research program in advanced imaging and precision radiotherapy. His research interests include biomedical imaging, quantitative MRI, and computational biology. Microbial Signatures May Predict Respiratory Failure in COVID-19 Functional microbiomics—the study of how microorganisms in the body change over time, and how the body responds—is emerging as a powerful tool to understanding a person’s disease risk. At NYU Langone Health, researchers are using the approach to measure host-microbe interactions in a variety of biological niches . These include the lower respiratory tract, where new data in Nature Microbiology finds the presence of certain species may contribute to respiratory failure in the context of COVID-19. Powerful Predictions There are currently no validated lower airway biomarkers to predict clinical outcomes, said first author Imran Sulaiman, MD, PhD , an expert in functional microbiomics. “Increased bacterial burden and the presence of gut-associated bacteria in the lung have been shown to worsen respiratory outcomes in a few studies, but no one previously had looked at the primary site of COVID-19 disease, the lower airways,” Dr. Sulaiman said. Dr. Sulaiman works in the research laboratory of Leopoldo Segal, MD , director of the Translational Lung Biology Laboratory. Together with colleagues, the researchers have shown how microbiome imbalances contribute to lung cancer progression and aspiration with oral commensals can affect immune responses during pulmonary infections. Effects of Commensal Bacteria In their most recent collaboration, the researchers evaluated data on 589 critically ill adults with severe COVID-19. All of the study participants were receiving mechanical ventilation and a subset (142 patients) underwent bronchoscopy, which allowed for a deeper evaluation of the lungs. Patients who died, or who spent at least 28 days on mechanical ventilation, had comparatively higher levels of the oral commensal Mycoplasma salivarium in their lower airways. Notably, there was no statistically significant association between microbiologic bronchoscopy results and clinical outcomes, with the exception of SARS-CoV-2 infection. “While we did not find that isolation of a secondary respiratory pathogen was associated with prolonged mechanical ventilation or fatal outcome, we did identify critical microbial signatures—characterized by enrichment of oral commensals, high SARS-CoV-2 load and decreased anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG response—associated with fatal outcome,” the authors wrote. A Case for Targeted Therapy By using metagenomics and metatranscriptomics, the researchers were able to start connecting airway flora and viral load to clinical outcomes in COVID-19. “The data in this analysis support that oral commensals are frequently found in the lower airways of critically ill COVID-19 patients and that differences between groups could be due to differential microbial pressures related to host factors, or that dynamic changes in the lower airway microbes affect host immune response to this viral infection,” Dr. Segal explained. Dr. Segal says more targeted antiviral therapy, rather than broad spectrum antibiotics, are called for when caring for critically ill patients with COVID-19. He notes a similar approach may be indicated for patients with other respiratory infections, though more research is required. Leopoldo Segal, MD, is the William Rom and David Kamelhar Associate Professor in the Department of Medicine. He is also director of the lung microbiome program, a critical care specialist, and pulmonologist. Imran Sulaiman, MD, PhD, is an adjunct professor of medicine in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine. His research centers around bioinformatic approaches to measuring host-microbial interactions, including functional microbiomics. Protecting Lupus Patients from Severe COVID-19 Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) are at high risk of severe disease from COVID-19 due to underlying immune dysregulation and prolonged use of immunosuppressants. Recent evidence suggests lupus drugs can also impact clinical and serological responses to vaccination against the virus , with higher rates of hospitalizations and attenuated seroreactivity in patients with immunosuppressed rheumatic disease following initial vaccination with an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine. new research published in The Lancet Rheumatology , an assistant professor of medicine, patients with lupus who receive an additional dose of COVID-19 vaccine are significantly less likely to have a subsequent SARS-CoV-2 infection compared with patients who only receive the initial vaccine series. “Our research shows that booster or additional vaccine doses are critically important for protection against breakthrough infection in patients with lupus,” Dr. Saxena says. “The arrival of the Omicron variant provided us with more comprehensive data and a larger sample size to bolster our confidence in booster doses.” Severe Disease and Hospitalization The new study evaluated the clinical efficacy and seroreactivity of vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 among 163 patients from the NYU Lupus Registry who had received an initial vaccination series with or without an additional vaccination dose. By analyzing patient encounters and chart review, the researchers tracked the occurrence of breakthrough SARS-CoV-2 infections after vaccination for at least six months following the initial vaccination series or until breakthrough infection. For confirmation of breakthrough infection, a positive PCR or antigen-based test was required, either self-reported or performed at a clinical site. “The rarity of severe disease in vaccinated patients with SLE and COVID-19 exemplifies the protective effect of vaccination in those at high baseline risk, especially compared with earlier in the pandemic.” Dr. Saxena and colleagues reported that 22 percent of patients who received an additional vaccine dose had a breakthrough infection versus 42 percent who did not, adding that among 44 total breakthrough infections, only 2 patients were hospitalized due to COVID-19, both of whom improved clinically and were subsequently discharged. In addition, no deaths related to COVID-19 occurred. “The rarity of severe disease in vaccinated patients with SLE and COVID-19 exemplifies the protective effect of vaccination in those at high baseline risk, especially compared with earlier in the pandemic,” Dr. Saxena explains. Clinical Recommendations Given the inherent risks in this patient population, Dr. Saxena recommends that all patients with lupus should be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and receive a booster dose to enhance or restore protection that may have diminished over time following the primary series vaccination. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, Dr. Saxena and colleagues plan to keep monitoring vaccine effectiveness, especially against severe disease in high-risk patients with rheumatic disease. “Ongoing surveillance programs to detect and classify new viral variants will be essential to inform policy and recommendations about booster vaccines in patients with lupus,” Dr. Saxena adds. Building a Level 1 Children’s Surgical Program at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital The director of children’s surgical services discusses key elements for achieving high-quality, family-centered care. Striving for a More Complete View of Lupus Patients The longitudinal NYU Lupus Registry, with nearly 900 enrolled patients, includes the vast majority of patients seen by NYU Langone Health rheumatologists. “While it’s been a very good tool for clinical and biological information, one thing that’s been missing is patient-reported outcomes,” says , associate professor of medicine. Through a CDC-funded Special Interest Project tied to a Prevention Research Center grant, Dr. Izmirly is collaborating with , an expert on health equity across socioeconomic, racial and ethnic, geographic, and clinical variations, to add these critical measures to the lupus registry. Through the researchers’ complementary expertise, the two-year project, called STRIVE (Systemic Lupus Targets Related to Improving Vital Endpoints), will enable them to overlay patient-reported outcomes, socioeconomic factors, and area-based measures onto the existing clinical and biological data. Together, the measures could provide an unprecedented view of potential contributors to SLE outcomes, says Dr. Izmirly. “Our lupus patient cohort spans a broad socioeconomic demographic and is racially and ethnically diverse,” he says. “The new sources of data will complement what we’ve already captured in our database, giving us an even more complete picture of the patients.” “This is a rare opportunity to bridge the two fields with a wealth of patient-reported data.” Compiling A Richer Dataset The team will implement a new infrastructure to collect the expanded dataset, while patient advisors will help determine the importance of certain measures to the patients’ overall health experience. Some of the data points relate to what Dr. Gold terms more “patient-centered measures” like pain severity and interference, anxiety, depression, and fatigue. “That’s something only the patient knows,” Dr. Gold says. “For some people with lupus, their blood work always seems fine, but they might not be able to get out of bed.” The project will also explore potential associations between patients’ regular physical activity and factors such as their perceived stress, their SLE flares or hospitalizations, and the concentrated poverty in their zip codes. Layering the data may provide more clarity on significant non-clinical contributors to worse outcomes, such as food or housing insecurity, difficulty accessing healthcare, and other experiential and psychosocial factors. “Residential segregation, poverty and other area-based factors affect how people access care and manage their care and symptoms,” Dr. Gold says. “So health outcomes can be impacted not only by the clinical and biological measures that Dr. Izmirly and colleagues have measured for years, but also by other patient-reported measures.” “I hope it will allow us to identify new ways to think about our lupus patients.” A Population Health Lens on Lupus Care Population health is more often focused on common conditions such as heart disease and cancer. Adding a rich layer of data to the well-characterized cohort in the lupus registry presents a unique chance to discover measures that could improve the lives of other patients, says Dr. Gold. “This is a rare opportunity to bridge the two fields with a wealth of patient-reported data,” she says. “I hope it will allow us to identify new ways to think about our lupus patients and figure out interventions that will help improve their quality of life and reduce their morbidity and mortality,” Dr. Izmirly adds. Interventional Pulmonology Comes of Age Daniel H. Sterman, MD speaking with patient. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff As interventional pulmonology began to emerge, Daniel H. Sterman, MD , now the Thomas and Suzanne Murphy Professor of Pulmonary and Critical Care, was just completing his medical training. He had the chance to work with pioneers who built the subspecialty into what it is today—a hybrid of pulmonary medicine and thoracic surgery, where minimally invasive procedures are used to diagnose and treat cancers and other lesions in the chest. Today, Dr. Sterman heads the multidisciplinary pulmonary oncology program, leading multidisciplinary teams in important research and clinical care intitiatives. Here, he discusses the further evolution of the field. Dr. Sterman, you’ve been involved in the field of interventional pulmonology since its inception. How have you seen it evolve? Dr. Sterman: Thirty-five years ago, we were primarily treating obstruction of the main airways and bronchi in cancer and other conditions with the goal of palliation of symptoms. There was not yet the interest in offering minimally invasive treatments for lung cancer and other pulmonary disorders. Today, interventional pulmonologists are combining leading edge technologies with translational expertise to both palliate the airways and, in the near future, definitively treat cancers and other suspicious lung lesions. We have the capacity to perform more advanced diagnostics and fewer invasive surgeries, and apply therapies directly where they’re needed. Responding to the COVID-19 Crisis Early in the pandemic, NYU Langone Health pioneered a protocol for implementing early, modified tracheostomy in ICU patients. What role did interventional pulmonology play? This was a major joint initiative led by , the director of lung transplantation, to create a pathway for percutaneous tracheostomy for those suffering from COVID acute respiratory distress syndrome. It was really revolutionary in March and April 2020; many centers wouldn’t do tracheostomy or bronchoscopy until there was evidence that there was no active virus in the lungs because of concerns of infection of healthcare providers. We showed that a tracheostomy within seven days minimized the need for respiratory support and got patients off the respirator, out of the ICU, and into recovery sooner. We were able to create an algorithm that ensured this could be done safely for the patient, provider and ancillary staff in the room—and that we could improve overall outcomes and survival. Other institutions confirmed the approach and guidelines were published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine that adhere closely to the NYU Langone Health protocol. Advanced Diagnostics for Suspicious Lesions Your team has been at the forefront of using robotic bronchoscopy and other advanced technologies for lung diagnostics. Can you describe some of these applications? We were the first commercial site in the United States to implement the Ion system, Intuitive’s robotic-assisted platform for minimally invasive biopsy in the lung. are using 3D robotic bronchoscopy to perform , reducing the need for more invasive procedures. Dr. Bessich, working with in neurosurgery, is also combining robotic bronchoscopy with to evaluate and diagnose suspicious lung nodules without destroying tissue. This would provide real time, on-site confirmation of the presence of malignancy, allowing for diagnosis and treatment of peripheral lung lesions in a single procedure. Delivering Therapeutics for Precision Treatment You’re leading two clinical trials testing bronchoscopic delivery of therapeutics to boost the immune response rate in lung cancer. What role does interventional pulmonology play in this groundbreaking cancer research? Interventional pulmonologists are developing the capacity to deliver thermal energy to peripheral lung cancers. Navigating to a lesion with robotic bronchoscopy, we can confirm we are at the correct location with 3D fluoroscopy and radial probe ultrasound, and in the near future, ablate the lesion with thermal energy such as with a flexible microwave probe. In the phase II LuTK02 study , one of the first intratumoral immunotherapy trials in lung cancer, we’re testing a therapy called gene-mediated cytotoxic immunotherapy, delivering a novel immunotherapeutic directly into the pulmonary tumor or involved lymph nodes to accentuate the benefits of systemic checkpoint inhibitors in patients who aren’t responding as well as we’d like. In a separate trial— Bronchoscopic Cryo-immunotherapy of Lung Cancer —we are testing another method for inducing immune responses to lung tumor cells in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. These techniques may serve as “ in situ vaccines.” If provided in addition to systemic therapy, surgery, or radiation, the multistep scheme could offer an important new method for controlling or reversing tumor growth and preventing lung cancer recurrence. Technology Investments & Expertise For this vision to come together, what are the necessary pieces? Do you have the technology armament? We’ve made a significant investment in the two major robotic bronchoscopy platforms to complement the electromagnetic platforms we already have. Our clinical research draws on the extensive expertise of our interventional pulmonology program , as well as the Precision Immunology Laboratory Division of Thoracic Imaging and Perlmutter Cancer Center’s Thoracic Oncology Disease Management Group . It’s a wonderful collaboration and an exciting paradigm in which NYU Langone Health can take a lead role in large trials. What are the most exciting opportunities ahead for the growth of the subspecialty? We are still in the early days of the intratumoral study, but this new modality is incredibly exciting and where the field will be heading. Right now, this is assisting in the treatment of advanced lung cancer, but it could be used to deliver pharmacologic agents such as chemotherapy and immunotherapy, in combination with thermal ablation, for early lung cancer. Dr. Sterman is a scientific advisor for Candel Therapeutics. Daniel H. Sterman, MD, is the Thomas and Suzanne Murphy Professor of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine and director of the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine. His research focuses include translation gene therapy and vaccine therapy for lung cancer, mesothelioma, and other pleural malignancies. Could Direct Injection Improve Tumor Response Rates? Directly injecting biologics into lung cancer tumors might improve response rates beyond those achievable with systemic therapy alone, according to the research behind a new phase II clinical trial testing the approach. The pioneering open label, multisite trial combines gene-mediated cytotoxic immunotherapy with standard of care for patients with refractory stage III/IV non-small cell lung cancer. The immunotherapy—two courses of aglatimagene besadenovec—is injected directly into an accessible tumor site under CT or ultrasound imaging. Patients also receive 14 days of oral valacyclovir to heighten broader immune responses to the injectable biologic, which contains herpes simplex virus gene HSVtk. The two-punch approach directly manipulates the tumor microenvironment while supporting systemic effects, explains principal investigator , Thomas and Suzanne Murphy Professor of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine. “When you give the patient valacyclovir, the drug in the tumor site is converted into a toxic metabolite that kills tumor cells and activates—together with HSVtk—a robust immune response. It acts not only locally where you do the injection, but anywhere in the body where tumor cells may be.” “The drug in the tumor site is converted into a toxic metabolite that kills tumor cells and activates—together with HSVtk—a robust immune response.” The study is one of the first to deliver immunotherapy directly into patients’ lung tumors. Patients will be followed for three years following the investigational treatment. Researchers will assess tumor response rates, adverse events, immune cell responses, patient-reported symptoms, and survival rates. A New Phase II Trial The phase II trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of adding gene mediated cytotoxic immunotherapy to standard of care in patients with stage III/IV non-small cell lung cancer that are not responding to a first line immune checkpoint inhibitor. Directly Targeting Tumors The study will determine whether delivering two rounds of the immunotherapy directly to tumor sites, via CT or ultrasound guided injection, is a safe approach that improves tumor response rates. Anticipated Systemic Effects Directly killing tumor cells in an immune stimulatory environment may induce the body to detect and destroy more cancer cells throughout the body, says principal investigator A Long-Term Solution Dr. Sterman and other interventional pulmonologists hypothesize that in the long-term, combining injectable biologics with available immune checkpoint inhibitors may provide a less invasive, safer, and more effective means of treating lung cancer. Does Mental Health Contribute to Psoriatic Arthritis Outcomes? fMRI showing neuroconnectivity in a patient without (a) and with (b) psoriatic arthritis. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health Roughly half of patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) achieve good outcomes with anti-inflammatory medication, says , assistant director of the . A key unanswered question is what keeps the other half of patients from achieving the same outcome. “One of our hypotheses is that it’s actually depression and anxiety, or mental health stressors, that are keeping patients from achieving full remission.” She notes about 30 percent of patients with PsA have anxiety and depression, and previous research has suggested that those with depression are much less likely to achieve remission. Dr. Haberman has launched a project called Mental Health and Neuroconnectivity as Predictors of Pain and Treatment Response in Psoriatic Disease. The multi-phase study is using functional MRI (fMRI) to seek out brain signals for pain, depression, and inflammation and assess whether such imaging might inform better treatment options. “We’re often escalating their immunomodulatory therapy when the answer may be that there are other connectivity pathways that might have been altered.” “For patients who don’t achieve good outcomes, we’re often escalating their immunomodulatory therapy when the answer may be that there are other connectivity pathways that might have been altered and that we should be targeting,” Dr. Haberman says. Neuroconnectivity May Influence Outcomes The project, funded by the National Psoriasis Foundation’s More Than Skin Deep grant and the Department of Medicine Young Scholars Program, is a collaboration with Mariana Lazar, PhD , an fMRI expert in the Department of Radiology. In the first phase, they will compare imaging results of patients recruited from the Psoriatic Arthritis Center to volunteers with and without depression. Patients will fill out depression and anxiety indices and undergo clinical exams to assess their level of inflammation. If the study establishes significant differences in neuroconnectivity, Dr. Haberman plans to compare fMRI results before and after treatment on biologics to assess whether the intervention improves the inflammatory disease and neuroconnectivity results. Research has already shown fMRI can point out signaling pathways in the brain and distinguish among different types of depression. Preliminary studies in rheumatoid arthritis have also suggested that the disease causes alterations in brain connections that may contribute to pain sensations. “If psoriatic arthritis, and in particular inflammation, can cause similar alterations in brain connectivity, then immunomodulatory medication alone may not be able to reverse those alterations completely,” Dr. Haberman says. Mindfulness as a Potential Intervention Adjuvant therapies could help normalize or reset altered neuroconnectivity pathways in PsA patients. One potential reset may be mindfulness-based cognitive therapy, which Dr. Haberman and Amanda J. Shallcross, MPH, ND , an expert on mindfulness in the Department of Population Health will explore in a subsequent phase of the project. “We want to see if we can help reset and alter those brain connections as well as improve psoriatic disease,” Dr. Haberman says. The approach has already shown utility in improving rheumatoid arthritis. “We know that there’s a mind-joint and a mind-skin connection… What is that connection? Can we visualize it?” “We know that there’s a mind-joint and a mind-skin connection,” Dr. Haberman adds. “The questions we’re trying to get at are, what is that connection? Can we visualize it, and if so, how can we use that as a tool for precision medicine?” Amping Up the Search for Better Therapeutics in Autoimmune Diseases To aid the search for better therapeutics for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, a 2014 NIH-sponsored effort called the Accelerating Medicines Partnership, or AMP, first focused on understanding the cellular and molecular pathways of rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. Under a new program launched in December 2021, an initiative called AMP Autoimmune and Immune-Mediated Diseases, or AMP AIM , has expanded to include psoriatic disease and Sjögren’s syndrome as additional areas of focus. NYU Langone Health is a lead center in the ambitious effort, which has attracted $58 million overall in public and private funding over five years. The partnership is pairing rheumatologists and dermatologists from NYU Langone and several other academic centers with the NIH, the Food and Drug Administration, pharmaceutical companies, and nonprofit organizations. , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology in the Department of Medicine, will serve as contact principal investigator of the AMP AIM program’s lupus team. , the Steere-Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, will lead the program’s microbiome core and serve as co-principal investigator of a psoriatic disease clinical team, and Peter M. Izmirly, MD, associate professor of medicine, will oversee a clinical site for the Sjögren’s syndrome team. “As the pace of discovery in the biology, genetics, and environmental regulation of SLE [systemic lupus erythematosus] accelerates, the speed and efficiency of translationally applying that research to clinical care assumes even greater importance.” An Acceleration of Discoveries in Lupus Research NYU Langone’s Division of Rheumatology led one of the lupus disease teams for the earlier AMP program that paved the way for the now-expanded effort. The team’s focus on , aided by an enrollment of more than 150 patients at NYU Langone who contributed kidney tissue for research, helped establish new protocols for tissue preservation and dissociation. From resident kidney cells and 21 clusters of immune cells, the team’s single-cell transcriptomic data yielded multiple discoveries. Publications in Nature Immunology, for example, described evidence of local activation of B cells progressive stages of monocyte differentiation and tubular type I interferon and fibrotic signatures as predictors of poor responses to treatment “As the pace of discovery in the biology, genetics, and environmental regulation of SLE [systemic lupus erythematosus] accelerates, the speed and efficiency of translationally applying that research to clinical care assumes even greater importance,” Dr. Buyon says. “We now have an unprecedented opportunity to harness technological advances to deconstruct and reconstruct the enormity of phenotypic and immunologic heterogeneity in this prototypic autoimmune disease.” Within the new AMP AIM progam, the group lead by Dr. Byron—the Lupus Omics Cutaneous Kidney Investigation Team (LOCKIT)—is a partnership with Johns Hopkins University, The Ohio State University, and the University of Pennsylvania. The institutions’ well-established patient registries, Dr. Buyon says, will help the team illuminate the molecular underpinnings of early kidney disease and cutanous disease with the hope of bringing new therapies to patients. Probing the Microbiome and Skin for Clues The AMP AIM program’s microbiome core, or Micro-TeACH (Microbiome Technology and Analytic Center Hub), led by Dr. Scher, will incorporate intestinal, skin, and other tissue-related microbiome features to aid in the pathogenesis reconstruction for various autoimmune and immune mediated diseases. The hub will help researchers interrogate the gut microbiome and its potential metabolic capacity to modulate anti-rheumatic drugs’ pharmacokinetics and response to therapy. In addition, the tools will enable an integration of the cutaneous and oral microbiome with tissue-derived spatial transcriptomics and single-cell technologies. The psoriatic disease team Dr. Scher is also co-leading has been dubbed ELLIPSS, or ELucidating the Landscape of Immunoendotypes in Psoriatic Skin and Synovium. Participants in varying stages of psoriatic disease will undergo biopsies of the skin and joint synovium to better identify the distinct functional or pathobiological mechanisms. “The skin may have the code for who progresses, why, and how,” Dr. Scher says. “We want to find which cells that reside in the skin are being attracted—the term we use is homing—to the joints and produce and promote inflammation there.” “What’s in that code may help us adopt a desperately needed precision medicine approach.” Any patterns and pathways, in turn, could have major implications for therapeutics . “What’s in that code may help us adopt a desperately needed precision medicine approach,” Dr. Scher says. A National Roadmap to Meet the Emotional Health Needs of Pediatric Patients NYU Langone Health physicians and researchers are taking a leading role in training other providers nationwide after their success in a national project focused on developing an improved model for integrated pediatric emotional care. The national initiative began in 2017 when joined eight other children’s hospitals in a pilot backed by the American Board of Pediatrics Foundation. Families of children living with chronic conditions had asked the board to develop a plan to correct shortfalls in addressing their emotional health needs. An interdisciplinary collaboration between the , part of Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, and the , with key assistance from , yielded a quality improvement project that has since become a go-to model. “Ninety percent of the time the intervention that was needed and used was just listening and being there with the family.” “Out of the nine children’s hospitals, we seemed to have had the most traction, which is a testament to Sala Institute and the embedding of behavioral health specialists here in our outpatient space, which many other hospitals just don’t have,” says pediatric endocrinologist An Expanding Scope Based on their pilot project in the Pediatric Diabetes Center, the researchers have since expanded the quality improvement initiative to include ambulatory care in the Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology Section of Pediatric Neuro-Oncology “An important lesson we have been able to share with other children’s hospitals around the country is that the inclusion of emotional health in the medical visit can be successful in different settings by incorporating it in ways tailored to individual practices,” Dr. Gallagher says. “It may look very different in each space.” “The inclusion of emotional health in the medical visit can be successful in different settings by incorporating it in ways tailored to individual practices.” The national initiative is now called the Roadmap to Resilience, Emotional, and Mental Health . Dr. Gallagher and Becky Lois, PhD , co-director of the KiDS of NYU Foundation Integrated Behavioral Health Program, have given lectures and led training seminars for the pediatrics board to share their findings with other institutions. Project leaders have adopted several metrics to measure improvements in their state of readiness. “The last one and hardest to achieve as a children’s hospital was creating a protocol to address behavioral emergencies experienced by parents because provision of care to an adult is not how a children’s hospital is designed,” Dr. Gallagher says. Thanks to the initiative, the Pediatric Diabetes Center has developed a carefully considered plan for how to care for an adult having an emotional crisis. Dr. Gallagher credits Sala Institute for contributing to the project’s success through developing educational materials, providing funding and offering the institute’s unique expertise in pediatric program quality improvement. Consistency with a New Step To address concerns that providers may lack the time, skills, or resources to address their patients’ emotional health, the project’s integrated behavioral health team is helping to hone skillsets and best practices. “We are not asking pediatric providers to be mental health professionals.” “Ninety percent of the time when we were piloting the Roadmap Initiative at the Pediatric Diabetes Center, the intervention that was needed and used was just listening and being there with the family,” Dr. Gallagher says. “We are not asking pediatric providers to be mental health professionals, but we are trying to make sure that we address the emotional and mental health of every child and caregiver at every visit.” Dr. Gallagher recognizes the challenge of consistently implementing these practices given all of the competing demands on providers. “It’s like trying to take a dance that you have perfected over 20 years and add a step in the middle of it,” she says. The step isn’t necessarily difficult, she adds, but it is new and requires a cognitive shift. “Sometimes we just get so busy,” Dr. Gallagher says. “I stop myself outside the door before appointments, take 10 seconds and a deep breath, and remind myself that this could be me on the other side of the door, this person and their child. I go in with that in mind: person first.” New Disease Discovery Drives Genetic Consult Services Experts bolster the clinical toolkit for evaluating atypical presentations. Stopping Congenital Heart Block in Its Tracks A major multicenter trial of fetal heart rate home monitoring is already showing signs of success. A Unique Case of Aortitis Complicated by Scleromyxedema and COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 appears to trigger a hyperinflammatory state that increases segmental aortitis risk. Nongenetic Enzyme Impairment May Facilitate Lupus Nephritis Pathogenesis A newly discovered enzyme-inactivation pathway may help illuminate a core pathogenic mechanism. Lupus Patients With COVID-19 Produce and Maintain Antibody Response after Infection Even with immunosuppressant use, the majority of SLE patients retain immunoreactivity to SARS-CoV-2. Lupus, Catastrophic Antiphospholipid Syndrome, and Complement-Mediated HUS Inherited disorders of complement regulation and atypical HUS help explain SLE, APS, systemic THMA with multiorgan injury. Assessing Splenic Nerve Stimulation for Rheumatoid Arthritis An anterolateral view (right side) of the spleen (red) relative to the pancreas. The stomach has been removed and the visceral surface of spleen is shown. PHOTO: Science Source A first-of-its-kind clinical trial is testing whether an implanted stimulatory device might aid human patients with treatment-refractory rheumatoid arthritis. In animal models of inflammation, repeated stimulation of the splenic nerve, a branch of the vagus nerve, can change lymphocyte trafficking and the inflammatory response. The human clinical trial is seeking to do the same by propagating nerve signals that shift circulating immune cells from a pro-inflammation to an inflammation-resolving state. The key-sized device, developed by Galvani Bioelectronics, emits pulses of electricity to the splenic nerve to stimulate the immune system. NYU Langone Health researchers partnered with the company to help design the randomized, double-blind trial and to serve as a lead center. In January 2022, David H. Goddard, MD , a clinical professor in rheumatology, collaborated with bariatric surgeons , to implant the device in the first North American patient—and just the second worldwide. The Splenic Nerve: A Promising Target “One of the hallmarks of rheumatoid arthritis is an overactivity of B lymphocyte function,” Dr. Goddard says. “That’s one of the reasons why you see very high levels of immunoglobulin being produced at the same time.” Damping down that immune cell activity may help shut down the cascade of downstream effects such as the local production of inflammatory mediators like tumor necrosis factor and cytokines within the synovial membrane of a joint. “There’s quite a bit of medical literature suggesting that stimulation of different parts of the autonomic nervous system can result in significant changes in bodily function. It’s also been clear over a long period of time that if you stimulate the vagus nerve, you can affect the way in which lymphocytes not only traffic but also behave.” For rheumatoid arthritis, reprogrammed immune cells that travel to the synovium may help reduce or resolve inflammation and pain in the affected joints. A Potential Key to Modulating Immune Cells The experimental neurostimulator, which wraps around the splenic nerve, is connected via a cable to a second device that sits in a pouch created in the patient’s anterior abdominal wall. That device, in turn, is connected by Bluetooth to an external controller that turns the device on for a defined period of nerve stimulation every day. Although stimulating a main trunk of the vagus nerve can bring unwanted effects such as a drop in blood pressure, stimulating nerve function close to the spleen may affect lymphocytes without the untoward effects of vagal nerve stimulation. The trial is actively enrolling patients and seeking referrals. Altogether, the multicenter trial is aiming to enroll 26 patients. After the device or a sham used as a placebo has been implanted in the first four participants, Dr. Goddard says, the FDA will review the trial data. “There’s a lot of excitement around the fact that we’ve managed to get this far. Now the next question is, how effective is it really in humans?” “There’s a lot of excitement around the fact that we’ve managed to get this far. Now the question is, how effective is it really in humans.” The therapy could have enormous potential not only for rheumatoid arthritis, but also for a range of other autoimmune diseases including inflammatory arthritis and inflammatory muscle diseases if proven effective, Dr. Goddard says. David H. Goddard, MD, is a clinical professor of medicine in the Division of Rheumatology and medical director of NYU Langone Ambulatory Care at Brooklyn Heights and Cobble Hill. Optilume Success After Urethroplasty Managing the recurrence of urethral stricture after urethroplasty can be challenging. The Optilume drug-coated balloon, which delivers paclitaxel to the urethral wall to, in theory, prevent recurrence, is a promising novel treatment for urethral stricture. Although randomized studies have demonstrated the safety and effectiveness of Optilume urethral dilation for treating recurrent strictures after endoscopic management, there have been no published studies on its efficacy following open urethroplasty. The following Case of the Month demonstrates the application and potential utility of Optilume urethral dilation for endoscopic management of recurrent urethral stricture following urethroplasty. Since the relative rarity of stricture recurrence after urethroplasty makes patient recruitment in clinical trials a challenge, peer-to-peer discussion on the application of Optilume dilation after urethroplasty may help advance treatment and improve patient care. The Optilume drug-coated balloon is approved by the FDA for treatment of anterior urethral strictures that are less than or equal to 3 cm long. The device has demonstrated success in treating recurrent strictures after endoscopic management. To date, there are no published data on its effectiveness for recurrence after urethroplasty. In the case presented, a 45-year-old male experienced lasting relief after electing Optilume dilation for a 1-cm proximal apical recurrence following urethroplasty for a 5-cm stricture. Further demonstrations of the success of Optilume in managing similar cases may support its use following urethroplasty. The patient first presented to his primary care physician with severe lower-urinary-tract symptoms (LUTS), including straining, weak stream, and hematuria. Though the patient initially attributed his condition to diet, his AUA Symptom Score of 33 represented severe LUTS. His post-void residual (PVR) was 450 ml, and uroflow measured as follows: max flow rate 5.6 ml/second, average flow rate 2.2 ml/second, 138 cc of voided volume. Upon referral to urology, retrograde urethrogram demonstrated a long-segment (5 cm) bulbar urethral stricture (Figure 1). A retrograde urethrogram reveals a 5 cm bulbar urethral stricture. Source: NYU Langone Health At this point, the patient presented to NYU Langone Health, where we discussed management options, including uncoated-balloon catheter urethral dilation or urethroplasty: Optilume was not yet FDA-approved for treatment of urethral strictures. The patient understood the high probability of recurrence following dilation, based on the length of his stricture, and elected dorsal buccal graft onlay urethroplasty. One year later, the patient presented with worsening LUTS, including progressive diminution of his urinary stream, and had a PVR of 125 ml. Uroflow measured as follows: max flow rate 5 ml/second, average flow rate 3 ml/second, 150 cc voided volume. Cystoscopy confirmed a recurrent 1-cm, 5-Fr urethral stricture at the proximal apex. At this time, we counseled the patient on options, including repeat urethroplasty and urethral dilation with or without Optilume, and he chose Optilume dilation. It has now been one year since the procedure, and the patient continues to have a durable result. Optilume Dilation: The Procedure The procedure was performed in the operating room under general anesthesia per initial guidelines. However, Optilume can now be performed in the ambulatory clinic. A flexible cystoscope was advanced into the urethra to the 5-Fr bulbar urethral stricture, confirmed to be 1 cm long. A 0.035 sensor wire was advanced into the bladder, and a 24-Fr uncoated dilating balloon catheter was advanced over the wire. Under direct visualization, the uncoated dilating balloon catheter was advanced to the urethral stricture and inflated to 20 mmHG. The balloon catheter was removed and a 24-Fr Optilume dilation balloon was advanced under direct vision to the urethral stricture and inflated for a five-minute dwell time. The cystoscope and the Optilume drug-coated balloon catheter were removed. A 16-Fr council Foley was advanced over the wire and into the bladder and connected to gravity drainage. Following the uncomplicated procedure, the patient was discharged and returned 72 hours later for Foley removal. Optilume care instructions include abstinence or using a condom for 30 days after treatment to avoid exposure of a partner to paclitaxel, and abstinence or contraception with sexual partners of childbearing age for at least six months after treatment to avoid potential risks to a fetus. Optilume Dilation: Evidence and Outcomes Evidence supporting Optilume utilization is from ROBUST III, a prospective, randomized, multicenter, single-blind trial that compared Optilume to traditional methods of endoscopic management of anterior urethral stricture. Eligible participants were adult males with strictures less than or equal to 3 cm in length who had had at least two prior endoscopic treatments. Participants in the intervention arm were pretreated with an uncoated balloon or direct vision internal urethrotomy to greater than or equal to 20 Fr. An Optilume drug-coated balloon was administered, with balloon sizes selected based on lumen diameter and stricture length. Inflation with the Optilume drug-coated balloon for five minutes or more allowed delivery of paclitaxel, and then a Foley catheter was placed for two to five days. At two years, patients who underwent Optilume dilation demonstrated sustained improvements in LUTS severity, captured using the International Prostate Symptom Score, and voiding parameters. When evaluating additional interventions, patients in the Optilume arm at two years had fewer repeat interventions than those in the control arm at one year (77.8 percent versus 23.6 percent). In summary, Optilume is established as a safe and effective endoscopic treatment for those who wish to avoid or delay formal urethroplasty. In this Case of the Month, we also illustrate how Optilume urethral dilation is a safe and effective option to consider for patients who present with recurrent strictures after urethroplasty. Endoscopic management of recurrent urethral strictures following bulbar onlay urethroplasty is feasible. Almost half of these recurrences occur at anastomotic sites, and success rates of direct vision internal urethrotomy for short recurrent strictures is 60.5 percent. Recurrence after a trial of endoscopic treatment, however, should be managed with repeat open reconstruction. It is important to note that there is no consensus on the ideal definition of success after urethroplasty. Some have considered freedom from re-intervention for urethral stricture as success, though others point out that certain patients with recurrences may elect no further intervention. Another definition, established by the Trauma and Urologic Reconstructive Network of Surgeons (TURNS), is the ability to pass a 16-to-17-Fr flexible cystoscope beyond the area of reconstruction. This definition is challenging, because routine endoscopy on all patients who undergo urethroplasty is not feasible due to costs and lack of evidence of its impact on further patient management. Another definition is based on the postoperative maximal flow rate (Qmax), but this measure is multifactorial, and a high Qmax does not rule out recurrence. A final definition is freedom from LUTS or an improvement compared to baseline. New tools, including the Urethral Stricture Surgery (USS) patient-reported outcome measure, and a reduced version called the Urethral Stricture Symptom and Impact Measure (USSIM), have been used to evaluate symptoms. These new tools, though important and necessary, also bring new challenges for utilization. Ultimately, the definition of success after urethroplasty should come from the patient. As a provider, I discuss with each patient what successful treatment of their stricture would look like and identify the best approach to achieve those goals. In the case presented here, the patient defined success as no longer straining to urinate, having a steady stream, and being able to empty his bladder. These results were achieved with Optilume dilation. 1. Elliott SP et al. (2022). One-Year Results for the ROBUST III Randomized Controlled Trial Evaluating the Optilume Drug-Coated Balloon for Anterior Urethral Stricture. ; 207(4): 866–875. 2. VanDyke ME et al. (2024). Optilume Drug-Coated Balloon for Anterior Urethral Stricture: 2-Year Results of the ROBUST III Trial. BJUI Comp ass; 5(3): 366–373. 3. Barbagli G et al. (2006). Anastomotic Fibrous Ring as Cause of Stricture Recurrence after Bulbar Onlay Graft Urethroplasty. ; 176(2): 614–619; discussion 9. 4. Rosenbaum CM et al. (2015). Internal Urethrotomy in Patients with Recurrent Urethral Stricture after Buccal Mucosa Graft Urethroplasty. World J Urol ; 33(9): 1337–1344. 5. Zaid UB et al. (2016). Management of the Recurrent Male Urethral Stricture. ; 17(4): 33. 6. Meeks JJ et al. (2009). Stricture Recurrence after Urethroplasty: A Systematic Review. ; 182(4): 1266–1270. 7. Erickson BA et al. (2014). Multi-Institutional 1-Year Bulbar Urethroplasty Outcomes Using a Standardized Prospective Cystoscopic Follow-Up Protocol. ; 84(1): 213–216. 8. Baradaran N et al. (2019). Clinical Significance of Cystoscopic Urethral Stricture Recurrence after Anterior Urethroplasty: A Multi-Institution Analysis from Trauma and Urologic Reconstructive Network of Surgeons (TURNS). ; 37(12): 2763–2768. 9. Tam CA et al. (2016). Critical Analysis of the Use of Uroflowmetry for Urethral Stricture Disease Surveillance. ; 91: 197–202. 10. Breyer BN et al. (2017). Comprehensive Qualitative Assessment of Urethral Stricture Disease: Toward the Development of a Patient-Centered Outcome Measure. ; 198(5): 1113–1118. 11. Jackson MJ et al. (2011). Defining a Patient-Reported Outcome Measure for Urethral Stricture Surgery. Eur Urol ; 60(1): 60–68. Nnenaya A. Mmonu, MD Urology, Reconstructive Genitourinary Surgery Nnenaya A. Mmonu, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and population health. Her areas of clinical interest include urethral strictures and upper tract genitourinary reconstruction. A Call for Mastering Transperineal Drainage CT scan of the patient’s pelvis demonstrating a prostatic abscess. Source: NYU Langone Health Prostatic abscesses are uncommon but potentially serious infections, more frequently seen in older men with chronic comorbidities. While many providers may rely primarily on antibiotics alone for the treatment of small- to medium-size abscesses, combining antibiotic therapy with transperineal drainage may accelerate patient recovery and lead to better outcomes. Not all urology residents are skilled and confident in performing transperineal drainage. Ensuring that all such residents have the opportunity to master this technique during their training is a key step in enhancing the care and quality of life for patients with these painful complications. To highlight the benefit of having proficiency in transperineal drainage, this Case of the Month describes its use to successfully manage a prostatic abscess in a 78-year-old male. Draining the abscess permitted a quick correction of the patient’s fever and rising white blood cell (WBC) count. The patient presented with a > 3 cm abscess, fever, confusion, and a rising WBC count reaching >15,000 cells/μL (microliter). Interventional radiology could not perform a transgluteal drainage due to the small size of the abscess and recommended intravenous antibiotics. With concern for the patient’s rising WBC count, urology performed a transperineal drainage. Two days after the procedure, the patient’s WBC count dropped below 10,000 cells/μL and his fever resolved. The patient presented to the emergency department following multiple episodes of falling. He had a medical history of type 2 diabetes, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis, hypertension, and a left below-the-knee amputation secondary to gangrene. The patient had been lethargic for five days, with markedly reduced oral intake. His family found him on the floor at home, prompting his presentation. On admission, the patient was febrile, with a temperature of 101.3 degrees F. He was cleared by trauma surgery after CT imaging, but an incidental finding on the CT scan prompted a urology consult: a “left intraprostatic fluid collection most compatible with abscess.” The patient was subsequently admitted for management of a prostatic abscess, failure to thrive, and recurrent falls. Physical examination of the patient was notable for an enlarged, boggy prostate, while blood work revealed a rising WBC count (Figure 1). Figure 1. A summary of the patient’s physical examination, laboratory results, and imaging findings. Source: NYU Langone Health The patient was initiated on intravenous Zosyn and intravenous fluids. Interventional radiology (IR) was consulted for potential abscess drainage. However, IR did not drain the collection, as it was too small to target with a pigtail catheter placed by a transgluteal approach. Instead, IR recommended continued intravenous antibiotics with reimaging for resolution of the collection. Since the patient’s WBC count continued to rise, the urology service decided to perform a transperineal drainage of the prostatic abscess under transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) guidance (Figure 2). Figure 2. Transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) image of the pigtail catheter placed in the abscess cavity. A total of 13 ml of purulent fluid was drained from the abscess. Cultures grew Klebsiella pneumoniae , which was sensitive to ceftazidime. The infectious disease team recommended a regimen of 2 grams of ceftazidime administered during hemodialysis. Blood cultures subsequently confirmed K. pneumoniae Follow-up CT imaging two days after placement of the catheter confirmed the appropriate position of the catheter and a decrease in the abscess size. The patient’s WBC count decreased to 9,500/μL, and he became afebrile. After five days, the drainage from the pigtail catheter ceased, and a subsequent CT scan demonstrated resolution of the abscess cavity, allowing for catheter removal (Figure 3). The patient completed a four-week course of intravenous antibiotics, as per infectious disease recommendations. This case spotlights the advantage of having transperineal drainage in the armamentarium of the urologist. Instead of waiting weeks for intravenous antibiotics to treat the infection, our urology service’s use of transperineal drainage allowed the fever to break and WBC to decrease within just two days. However, many urology residents are increasingly lacking experience and ease with the technique, even though they do develop expertise in transperineal biopsy. Integrating training in transperineal drainage would therefore be straightforward and beneficial. Figure 3. CT scan of the patient’s pelvis five days after transperineal drainage, showing no abscess cavity. The pigtail catheter is along the left prostate gland, where the previously identified prostatic abscess was. Source: NYU Langone Health This case also offers an overview of the challenges and considerations in managing prostatic abscesses. Prostatic abscesses are most frequently observed in men aged 50 to 60, but they occur in all age groups. In younger patients, the presence of a prostatic abscess warrants investigation for underlying comorbidities. Historically, prostatic abscesses were associated with chronic bacterial prostatitis, voiding dysfunction, and neurogenic voiding dysfunction. However, chronic medical conditions are now recognized as significant risk factors. These include diabetes mellitus, renal failure, liver cirrhosis, and immunocompromised states such as rheumatologic conditions. Genitourinary instrumentation is also a leading cause of prostatic abscess formation. According to one report, a history of an indwelling urethral catheter, recent urethral instrumentation, and recent prostate biopsy were present in 29, 17 and 8 percent of prostatic abscess cases, respectively. Diagnosis is primarily confirmed through imaging modalities such as CT, MRI, or TRUS of the prostate. Management depends on the abscess size and patient symptoms. For abscesses smaller than 2 cm with multiple loculations, as well as small abscesses associated with leukocytosis and minimal symptoms, antibiotic therapy based on urine or blood culture sensitivity or both can be initiated for two to three weeks, at which point the patient should be reevaluated. If the abscess persists, TRUS-guided needle aspiration and/or perineal drainage with a pigtail catheter, or transurethral resection/unroofing of the abscess cavity should be performed. If the abscess is larger than 2 cm and associated with severe lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), urinary retention, sepsis, or leukocytosis, then TRUS-guided transperineal abscess drainage with a pigtail catheter and urinary diversion with a suprapubic catheter may be considered. Another alternative may be to engage IR to perform a transgluteal drainage. If there is persistence of the abscess despite drainage, transurethral unroofing of the large abscess should be considered. The advantage of transperineal or transgluteal drainage over unroofing is the preservation of antegrade ejaculation. For all large abscesses, prolonged antibiotic therapy for four to six weeks is required. The successful outcome of this case underscores the importance of careful monitoring and a tailored multidisciplinary treatment approach. 1.Ackerman AL et al. (2018). Diagnosis and Treatment of Patients with Prostatic Abscess in the Post-Antibiotic Era. Int J Urol ; 25(2):103–110. 2. Elshal AM et al. (2014). Prostatic Abscess: Objective Assessment of the Treatment Approach in the Absence of Guidelines. Arab J. Urol. ; 12:262–268. 3. Vyas JB et al. (2013). Transrectal Ultrasound-Guided Aspiration in the Management of Prostatic Abscess: A Single-Center Experience. Indian J. Radiol. Imaging ; 23:253–257. Frederick A. Gulmi, MD, chief of urology at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, is a clinical associate professor of urology and vice chairman of the Department of Urology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. National Funding Drives Innovation in Rheumatology Research NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s has been awarded the prestigious T32 training program grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) multiple times. The funding expands the division’s ability to train and educate the next generation of research leaders in rheumatology. , assistant director of NYU Langone Health’s and former recipient of the T32 grant, discusses how the funding provided her unique training opportunities and financial resources for the acquisition and development of research skills. She also highlights some of her ongoing multidisciplinary research and clinical care initiatives, fostering new innovations in the field of rheumatology. Equipping New Researchers with Knowledge and Skills Dr. Haberman, you’ve been a recipient of the T32 training grant. How did it help you as a researcher? Dr. Haberman: Overall, the grant funding has allowed me to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills that will help me to develop my own independent research program—something I’ve always wanted to do. “As the field continues to advance, it is important to focus on how we translate discoveries made in the lab into the office, to directly benefit our patients.” As a fellow in the Division of Rheumatology , I worked under the mentorship of , director of the Psoriatic Arthritis Center, as well as other members of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s , which fostered my interest in psoriatic arthritis and outcomes-based research. As the field continues to advance, it is important to focus on how we translate discoveries made in the lab into the office, to directly benefit our patients. Unique and Specialized Training Opportunities How did the funding prepare you for a career in outcomes-based rheumatology research? Along with the funding came unique training opportunities. For example, I was able to obtain an MS in Clinical Investigation (MSCI) at NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Clinical and Translational Science Institute , which allowed me to become more efficient and productive in my research. With respect to cross-discipline collaboration, opportunities were readily available in my training program. Strong mentorship from investigators in other departments provided me with a solid foundation on which to analyze data and design new studies—at the heart of research education for clinical trainees is to increase their exposure to different scientific disciplines. Growing a Research Program What are a few notable projects already underway or in planning through your research program? My funding from the T32 training grant ended in 2021. Since then, I’ve secured additional funding from the Rheumatology Research Foundation and the National Psoriasis Foundation to continue my research in psoriatic arthritis. In collaboration with Dr. Scher, I’m leading a major multicenter, interventional, preventive study, . The randomized trial across five North American medical centers has begun recruiting patients with psoriasis. The purpose of this study is to determine if the drug guselkumab can prevent progression of psoriasis to psoriatic arthritis when compared to placebo and to other standard of care treatment in patients with high-risk psoriasis. In addition to providing critical insights into the progression of psoriatic disease, this study could change the standard of care for patients. Looking ahead, what other projects are you excited about? I’m excited about a new project investigating changes in brain connectivity in individuals with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis, as well as the risk and effects of depression on pain in psoriatic disease. We are currently seeking funding for this and other related investigations. Surgical Dermatology Services People with skin cancers, including basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma , as well as people who have noncancerous lesions such as atypical moles, cysts, or lipomas, may be referred to our surgical dermatologists for treatment. Our doctors are specialists in dermatologic surgery and oncology, including Mohs micrographic surgery. Our surgical dermatologists are experts in Mohs micrographic surgery and reconstruction, a type of surgery that offers the best outcomes for skin cancers. Mohs micrographic surgery and reconstruction is a specialized form of skin cancer surgery that offers the highest cure rate for certain types of skin cancer and high-risk tumors. It allows your surgeon to remove the least amount of healthy skin tissue, providing the best functional and cosmetic outcomes. Our dermatologic surgeons are members of the American College of Mohs Surgery, and are trained in skin cancer removal and reconstructive surgery. Our Surgical Dermatology Team Our doctors provide surgical dermatology services to treat skin cancers and problematic skin lesions. John A. Carucci, MD, PhD Maressa C. Criscito, MD Dermatologic Surgery, Cosmetic Dermatology Todd Coven, MD Mary L. Stevenson, MD We offer services online and in person for family caregivers in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Staten Island. 646-754-2277 Our Programs Caring for a family member who has or another trouble with thinking or memory can be both emotionally and physically challenging. At NYU Langone’s Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program, we understand and are here to help. Our team of experts can provide you with the care consultation, support, education, and referrals that can make a difference. Our research has shown that caregivers who receive emotional and practical support experience measurable improvements in stress and emotional and physical wellbeing. Our experts evaluate people with memory-related conditions and help families cope with related symptoms. Learn More About Our Center Our support program offers comprehensive services, including care consultation, resources, education, and cultural experiences free of charge, online and in person for family caregivers in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Staten Island. We will refer caregivers from other areas to appropriate local resources. When you contact us, we connect you with a team that is focused on understanding and helping you with your caregiving challenges. We talk with you about what you are experiencing now and what to expect in the future. Support for Family Members Our services are free of charge and are available virtually and in person. Some of the services we provide include the following: comprehensive evaluation of your situation, so we can personalize our services to suit your needs and those of the person you are caring for education to help you understand the causes and symptoms of memory disorders and how to help your family member have the best possible quality of life time away from your care responsibilities—called respite—through special programs specifically designed for people in the early stages of memory and cognitive impairment, and referrals to professionals who can help you find the most appropriate provider individual and family care consultation with a social worker who can meet with you one-on-one, either via online video conferencing, by phone, or in person referrals to support groups and other organizations in your community ongoing access to our team for as long as you need us Our goal is to make it easier for you to meet the needs of your family member who has problems with thinking and memory, and to help you maintain your own wellbeing. Our services are free and available to family caregivers who live in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Staten Island or whose relative with dementia lives in those boroughs. Family caregivers include spouses, adult children and grandchildren, other relatives, and close friends. The Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program is led by , and is supported by a five-year grant from the New York State Department of Health. For more information about our services, please call 646-754-2277. If you would like us to call you, please email Family.Support@NYULangone.org . Include your name, phone number, and the best time for us to reach you. Refer a Caregiver Physicians and other healthcare providers can refer a caregiver to our program by calling You may contact us via email at Our office is open Monday through Friday, from 9:00AM to 5:00PM. Cosmetic Dermatology Services Our dermatologists specialize in aesthetic dermatology and skin rejuvenation procedures. We offer innovative treatments for cosmetic concerns, including redness, pigmentation, fine lines, wrinkles, and aging. Cosmetic and laser treatments are performed by our dermatologists using the latest technology advancements. We provide several different types of laser treatments, including those that promote collagen; improve fine lines, wrinkling, and skin tone; address pigmented lesions and vascular lesions; and treat scars and stretch marks. We also use laser treatments to remove unwanted hair and tattoos. We use the latest laser and dermatologic treatments for cosmetic concerns such as wrinkles, fine lines, and spider veins. Our most popular cosmetic services include the following: neurotoxin injections, including Botox and Dysport, to treat frown lines, forehead wrinkles, crow’s-feet, and smile lines laser treatments for wrinkles, redness, hyperpigmentation, and skin resurfacing Kybella, or deoxycholic acid, injections to treat and improve the appearance and profile of moderate to severe fat below the chin, also called a double chin microneedling, a procedure that improves the appearance of fine lines, wrinkles, and scarring platelet-rich plasma therapy (PRP), a medical procedure that promotes rejuvenation, stimulation, and regrowth of hair and skin sclerotherapy, a procedure used to eliminate the appearance of spider veins soft tissue fillers, including Restylane, Juvéderm, Voluma, Belotero Balance, Sculptra, and Radiesse, for wrinkles, volume loss around the mouth and cheeks, and lip augmentation Our Cosmetic Dermatology Team Our doctors work together to provide the highest-quality care to treat cosmetic conditions affecting the skin. Behçet’s disease, a rare condition that causes inflammation in the blood vessels, can be difficult to diagnose because its symptoms, including mouth sores, skin problems, and arthritis, are found in many other conditions. An accurate diagnosis of is the key to managing these symptoms. At NYU Langone’s Behcet’s Disease Center, part of NYU Langone’s , our team has the experience to give you a correct diagnosis and start you on an effective treatment plan. Our level of expertise has made us one of the leading centers for the care and treatment of Behçet’s disease, considered a rheumatic condition because it causes blood vessel inflammation. We are also at the national forefront of research aimed at understanding the body processes that create the symptoms of Behçet’s disease, as well as the development of new treatment options. Because of the rarity of Behçet’s disease, people travel from outside New York City to our center for diagnosis and treatment. Please contact NYU Langone’s programs for help coordinating your travel plans and your medical experience at NYU Langone. Our rheumatologists are nationally recognized experts on Behçet’s disease. Yusuf Yazici Positive Outcomes for In-Office Needle Arthroscopy in Treating Anterior Ankle Impingement A new nano-arthroscopy system offers a promising alternative to traditional arthroscopic procedures. A Safe New Anesthesia Option for High-Risk Hip Fracture Patients Monitored anesthesia care plus soft-tissue infiltration with local anesthesia offers multiple benefits and no added risks. Telemedicine Proves Value to Outpatient Surgery Experience Research finds same-day video calls most enhance patient satisfaction, followed by phone calls. How to Preserve Quality and Outcomes As Health Systems Grow Leaders in orthopedics describe building a well-integrated system to advance high-quality care. Tranexamic Acid, Total Joint Arthroplasty, and Coronary Artery Disease Study investigates treatment to minimize blood loss in joint replacement patients with cardiovascular comorbidities. NYU Langone Orthopedics Physicians at the AAOS Annual Meeting Our physicians and world leaders recently gathered in Chicago for the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) held from March 22–26, 2022. Surveying Cultural Preferences for Toe-to-Thumb Transfer Versus Pollicization In a survey of the general public (n = 202), researchers asked whether people thought they would prefer a toe-to-thumb transfer or pollicization for a thumb reconstruction after a traumatic injury, and no strong preference between the procedures was indicated. For respondents from China, 35.6 percent strongly or somewhat favored pollicization, 46.7 percent strongly or somewhat favored toe-to-thumb transfer, and 17.8 percent were unsure. For respondents from India, 34.7 percent strongly or somewhat favored pollicization, 57.2 percent strongly or somewhat favored toe-to-thumb transfer, and 8.2 percent were unsure. For respondents from Western countries, 38.4 percent strongly or somewhat favored pollicization, 50.5 percent strongly or somewhat favored toe-to-thumb transfer, and 11.1 percent were unsure. In a survey of the general public (n = 202) and surgeons (n = 106), surgeons underestimated the public’s perceived importance of having a five-digit hand. When asked how important it was to have a 5-digit versus 5-digit hand, 81.5 percent of respondents in the general population said it was important or very important, 6.0 percent said it was unimportant or very unimportant, and 12.5 percent had no opinion. Of the surgeons questioned, 58.7 percent said it was important or very important, 37.5 percent said it was unimportant or very unimportant, and 3.8 percent had no opinion. For thumb reconstruction after a traumatic hand injury, a lack of objective data on outcomes following index pollicization versus toe-to-thumb transfer has left patients and providers with few unbiased guideposts. To provide cultural context that may aid decision-making, , and colleagues collaborated with international researchers to examine differences in preferences and outcome expectations among hand surgeons and the general public in six Eastern and Western countries. “Assumptions around culture should be made very carefully … patients around the world are much more similar in their preferences than previously thought.” Despite previous suggestions that preferences may depend upon location, their analysis revealed that the majority of surgeons involved in the study favored toe-to-thumb transfer over pollicization. In contrast, the general public didn’t strongly favor one procedure over the other, regardless of location. Surgeons held more optimistic expectations than the public on both procedures, underscoring the necessity of research to evaluate and more conclusively determine which reconstruction procedure optimizes patient outcomes. As it stands today, the researchers suggest discussing the pros and cons of each procedure, and ensuring good alignment in outcome expectations prior to surgery, to increase patient satisfaction and decrease anxiety and subsequent conflict. “Assumptions around culture should be made very carefully. Our analysis shows that patients around the world are much more similar in their preferences than previously thought,” Dr. Hacquebord says. Giving Psychedelic Medicine a Dedicated Infrastructure NYU Langone’s Center for Psychedelic Medicine has received more than $10 million in philanthropic support, with more than $5 million of it dedicated to research training. The center’s three-pronged approach combines psychiatry, medicine, and preclinical research. SOURCE: NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine A first of its kind, the NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine will advance a burgeoning area of basic science by providing a dedicated, essential infrastructure for research and training in therapeutic use of psychedelics. The new center builds on long-standing expertise at NYU Langone Health that garnered more than $10 million in donations for its creation. Researchers at NYU Langone have published seminal papers on the clinical benefits of psychedelics to treat a range of conditions, including addiction, cancer-related psychiatric conditions, major depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder. The center boasts more than 30 dedicated researchers and is currently enrolling in five clinical trials . For early career scientists, the center offers the nation’s first Psychedelic Medicine Research Training Program “These initiatives will provide an environment in which scientists, clinicians, trainees, and other staff contribute in meaningful ways to ensure that the momentum created by the modern psychedelic renaissance is sustained.” “These initiatives will provide an environment in which scientists, clinicians, trainees, and other staff contribute in meaningful ways to ensure that the momentum created by the modern psychedelic renaissance is sustained and continue to yield medical breakthroughs backed by sound science,” says center director , a professor of psychiatry. For more information, visit the Pain Management with Buccal Absorption of CBD Tablets Buccally absorbed cannabidiol (CBD) improves pain control and patient satisfaction following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, according to a presented at the 2022 American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Annual Meeting . Led by investigators at NYU Langone Health, the research also suggests higher CBD doses may correspond with improved outcomes. , an associate professor of orthopedic surgery, co-director of the , and first author on the study, explains that while there is growing interest in CBD for managing pain without opioids, data on safety and effectiveness are scarce. Co-authors on the study include , an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, , chief of the Division of Sports Medicine, and Andrew S. Rokito, MD , chief of the Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery. “Oral disintegrating CBD tablets are safe and effective in reducing pain in the immediate postoperative period following shoulder arthroscopy.” “CBD formulations are readily available but are relatively unregulated and unmonitored through the FDA,” Dr. Alaia says. “Our study is one of the first to formally evaluate the use of CBD in orthopedic surgery and shows that oral disintegrating CBD tablets are safe and effective in reducing pain in the immediate postoperative period following shoulder arthroscopy.” Participants either received oral tablets containing 25 or 50 mg of CBD (based on body weight) to be taken three times a day for 14 days, or placebos identical in taste and appearance. NYU Langone received an investigational new drug application (IND) from the FDA to use ORAVEXX in the study. All participants also received oxycodone/acetaminophen to take one to two tablets every four to six hours, as needed. Pain, as assessed by the visual analog scale, was significantly lower in those receiving CBD compared to placebo on postoperative day one. Moreover, patient satisfaction with pain control was significantly higher in those receiving CBD on both postoperative day one and two. “While results at later time points did not always reach statistical significance, overall, patients receiving CBD consistently reported lower levels of postoperative pain and higher satisfaction compared to patients in the placebo group,” explains Dr. Alaia. When broken down by subgroup, patients receiving 50 mg of CBD reported even lower pain scores and higher satisfaction compared to those receiving 25 mg. “It is interesting that the greatest effects of the medication were observed when patients were in more significant pain. This gives us hope that a well-developed CBD formulation can have similar promise and effectiveness in other pathologies in which pain can be quite significant,” Dr. Alaia says. Dr. Alaia receives research support from Orcosa, Inc. He receives consulting fees for Depuy Mitek, JRF Ortho, and Arthrex. Radiation Therapy Shows Promise for Arrhythmia Treatment A cardiac CT provided the anatomical foundation for radiation therapy. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Multimodal Imaging Adds Another Layer of Innovation When the same patient kept presenting to the emergency department with ventricular tachycardia requiring shocks from an implanted defibrillator, Chirag R. Barbhaiya, MD , a cardiac electrophysiologist and specialist in cardiovascular disease, considered all options before his team in the and radiation oncology decided the case warranted a groundbreaking approach: stereotactic radiation therapy guided by novel, multimodal imaging. The patient had already undergone several cardiac catheter ablations to prevent the dangerous heart rhythm and reduce the recurrent need for shocks. The ventricular tachycardia stemmed from a prior heart attack, and the area of the heart causing the arrhythmia could not be treated by a catheter-based procedure. “We were able to figure out exactly where this patient’s rhythm problem was coming from,” Dr. Barbhaiya says. “But because of its location, the energy source we use, and the thickness of the tissue, we couldn’t get enough energy to the area for a successful ablation.” “It’s a promising therapy for patients that have no other option.” Planning the radiation treatment required an army of specialists all working to pinpoint the smallest area of tissue in the patient’s heart that could be targeted to prevent the arrhythmia. A key element was a non-invasive program stimulation, or NIPS, with non-invasive mapping, a procedure that creates an electrical map of the ventricular tachycardia after the heart is stimulated to recreate the arrhythmia. The patient wears a monitoring vest while an electrophysiologist stimulates the heart via the patient’s defibrillator and tracks cardiac responses. The electrical maps are combined with a cardiac CT scan. Dr. Barbhaiya relied on radiologists, medical physicists, as well as outside consults to evaluate the combined images and determine, within millimeters, the best region and approach for radiation therapy. While the procedure required upwards of a week to plan, the actual radiation therapy was less than 15 minutes. “It’s clearly very early and the technology is still under development, but it’s a promising therapy for patients that have no other option,” Dr. Barbhaiya says, adding, “Treatment was done on a Friday, and they were discharged on a Saturday.” CT Provides A Foundation A cardiac CT provides the anatomical foundation for radiation therapy used to treat arrhythmias that do not respond to ablation or medical therapy. The emerging approach uses multimodal imaging to precisely identify areas of the heart to irradiate. A Personalized, Electroanatomic Map First, electrophysiologists create a 3D map of a patient’s heart to display electrical activity and reveal the arrhythmia location. Non-Invasive Program Stimulation (NIPS) Using a technique known as non-invasive program stimulation, or NIPS, the arrhythmia is induced, and the next step is to map electrical activity during the arrhythmia. Developing A Radiation Treatment Plan Combining the images allows a multidisciplinary team to pinpoint the smallest area of tissue that can be irradiated with confidence (red boundary). The area encompasses the entire arrhythmia, while minimizing the risk of radiation exposure to other areas of the heart. Chirag R. Barbhaiya, MD, is an assistant professor and specialist in cardiac electrophysiology and cardiovascular disease. His clinical interests include mapping and ablation to treat atrial fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, and other arrhythmias. A Flexible Surgical Alternative for Adolescent Scoliosis Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri, MD, PhD, and a surgical team. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff For treating adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS), orthopedic surgeons have long viewed posterior spinal fusion as the gold standard despite some significant drawbacks. “I’ve been doing scoliosis surgery for more than 20 years now,” says Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri, MD, PhD , clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery. “We do a good job of correcting the spinal curves with fusion surgery, but the quality of life for patients is negatively impacted.” Particularly among younger pediatric patients, the fusion technique can interfere with growth, motion, and flexibility and prevent their involvement in sports and other activities. Diagnosed with scoliosis himself at the age of 12, Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri was fortunate to avoid surgery. The experience, though, inspired his career and dedication to helping maintain others’ quality of life. A More Flexible Alternative Introduced a decade ago, , or VBT, has rapidly developed into a viable alternative. Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri’s expertise in VBT has helped advance the muscle-sparing method, which uses flexible polymer cords threaded through titanium screws attached to vertebrae on one side of the spine. The process, called growth modulation, pulls the spine into alignment as a child grows. Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri is one of the only surgeons to use the VBT procedure for early-onset scoliosis in patients as young as six years old, and to use CT imaging for precise titanium screw placement to minimize the risk during surgery. To improve the curve correction and minimize the risk of cord breakage, he is among the few surgeons to employ two cords with a double set of screws instead of a single cord. “The idea with this technology is to let them move around,” says Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri. “Maybe they’ll need a fusion when they’re older, but at least you’re giving them a good quality of life, they can continue to grow, the spine can continue to grow, and the lungs can continue to develop.” “The idea with this technology is to let them move around … I had one patient who was dancing 18 days after her surgery.” Grateful families have sent videos of their children resuming the activities they enjoyed before the VBT procedure, often within four to six weeks. “I had one patient who was dancing 18 days after her surgery,” he says. Comparing Results in Curve Correction In addition to potential breathing and back problems from scoliosis, clinical data suggest that patients with an L5 tilt of more than 16 degrees are at higher risk for future disc degeneration if the tilt remains uncorrected. The VBT procedure has yielded good results in Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri’s initial cases and may help prevent disc degeneration better than fusion, but the two techniques hadn’t been compared head-to-head. He recently led a single-center retrospective cohort analysis of 41 patients with AIS. Among them, 21 underwent a VBT procedure and 20 received a posterior spinal fusion. The researchers used preoperative and postoperative radiographic analyses to measure differences in the patients’ main, secondary, and fractional curve Cobb angles and in the L5 tilt. At two years postoperatively, the VBT cohort had significantly smaller fractional curve angles and L5 tilt, translating into a greater correction of the L5 tilt (-17.2 ± 10.2 versus -6.3 ± 6.9 degrees. The benefit of VBT over posterior spinal fusion was maintained even after propensity matching to account for demographic differences. The results suggest that the VBT technique, which is better at preserving scoliosis patients’ range of motion, flexibility, and growth, offers an effective non-fusion alternative for correcting the spinal deformity. In addition, Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri says, VBT may lead to fewer complications later in life by preventing degenerative changes—an added benefit he hopes to substantiate with further study through his clinical practice. Spine Surgery, Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri, MD, PhD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and director of early-onset scoliosis. He specializes in the surgical and nonsurgical treatment of scoliosis, spina bifida, spinal injuries in athletes, and a variety of other spine conditions. Presenters at the 2022 AHA Scientific Sessions NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons joined international colleagues in Chicago, November 5–7. Stimulant Shows Promise in Treating Sluggish Cognitive Tempo in Adults with ADHD Many patients with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) complain of feeling lethargic and foggy-headed—symptoms at odds with common conceptions of ADHD. These individuals may be suffering from sluggish cognitive tempo (SCT) , a comorbid symptom set characterized by persistent dreaminess, spaciness, hypoactivity, and difficulty initiating tasks. “In patients with ADHD, co-occurring SCT has been shown to significantly increase impairment in a wide variety of domains.” recent study led by NYU Langone Health researchers—the first of its kind—suggests that the stimulant lisdexamfetamine (LDX), marketed as Vyvanse®, may be an effective treatment for SCT in adults with ADHD. A Little-Understood Syndrome Although SCT co-occurs most frequently in ADHD, it can accompany conditions such as depression and schizophrenia as well; debate persists over whether it is a separate disorder. What’s certain is that it can pose daunting challenges for people who have it. “In patients with ADHD, co-occurring SCT has been shown to significantly increase impairment in a wide variety of domains,” says , a professor of psychiatry and child and adolescent psychiatry and director of the Adult ADHD program. “Yet little is known about treating this syndrome in adults.” To find out more, Dr. Adler led a two-phase (phenotypic and treatment) randomized crossover trial of SCT and ADHD in adults at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. The phenotypic phase characterized SCT, ADHD, and executive function symptoms in individuals who had ADHD and SCT versus those who had ADHD and were SCT-negative. An interim report of the NYU Langone cohort confirmed previous findings that individuals with both SCT and ADHD, versus ADHD alone, had higher levels of inattentive and other symptoms. The new study, , reported on the treatment phase. A Trailblazing Trial The study was the first medication trial for SCT in adults with ADHD, rather than children, and the first trial of amphetamines (known to be the most effective ADHD drugs) for comorbid SCT in any age group. Dr. Adler and his multi-institutional team studied 38 adults with co-occurring ADHD and SCT in the 10-week crossover trial, with two double-blind treatment periods. During the first period, subjects were randomized to receive either oral LDX or a placebo; they crossed over during the second treatment phase, after a placebo washout period of several weeks. The results were encouraging: LDX reduced self-reported symptoms of SCT by 30 percent. The drug also lowered ADHD symptoms by over 40 percent, and significantly corrected deficits in executive function. Strikingly, the researchers found that only 24 percent of overall improvements in SCT symptoms were due to improvements in ADHD symptoms. Further SCT Research In addition to indicating that LDX could be an effective treatment for adults with co-occurring ADHD and SCT, Dr. Adler observes, “our study provides further evidence that sluggish cognitive tempo might be distinct from ADHD.” It also suggests that LDX might help control the syndrome in other contexts. “The next line of research,” he adds, “is to determine whether patients who have SCT without ADHD will respond similarly to this drug.” Resolution of a Severe Hip Implant Dislocation with Femur Extraction Twenty months after the surgical insertion of the temporary hip spacer, the patient suffered a severe dislocation with a near-complete extraction of the cemented implant from the left femur. Correction of Dissociated Antibiotic-Loaded Hip Spacer A 65-year-old woman who had undergone a total hip arthroplasty for avascular necrosis in her left hip subsequently contracted a bacterial infection that required several revision surgeries at NYU Langone Health to implant an antibiotic-loaded temporary hip spacer and treat her trochanteric fracture and instability. Twenty months after revision, the patient presented to the emergency department after experiencing discomfort and noticing a significant change in her leg length for three to four days. Pelvic X-rays revealed a severe dislocation of the hip spacer with near-complete extraction of the cemented implant from the left femur. Prior history of trochanteric fracture added to the patient’s hip instability. Orthopedic surgeon , worked with colleagues to confirm the absence of infection and performed a same-day revision surgery in which he converted the spacer to a final implant secured with screws and a constrained liner. “The challenges of the case were ruling out infection, addressing a four-day-old dislocation in a non-compliant patient with pressure on her sciatic nerve, and managing the loss of her trochanter and the resulting instability from a lack of attached abductor muscles,” Dr. Meftah says. “We also had to meticulously remove all of the cement from her femur and acetabulum and take into account her stiff spine to avoid implant impingement while getting her leg length equal.” “We managed to rule out infection, get the appropriate implants, and clear her right away for surgery knowing that she had been dislocated for several days.” Computer navigation helped the surgical team ensure an anatomy-appropriate correction of the patient’s leg length and proper implant positioning. “It’s teamwork, and that includes infectious disease, anesthesia, and the entire perioperative surgical teams,” Dr. Meftah says. “We managed to take care of this patient very rapidly in a very safe manner to rule out infection, get the appropriate implants, and clear her right away for surgery knowing that she had been dislocated for several days.” Two weeks post-surgery, the patient was walking well with a cane and pleased with her progress. X-Ray of an Antibiotic-Loaded Hip Spacer One year after a total hip arthroplasty for avascular necrosis in her left hip, the patient sustained a periprosthetic dislocation with trochanteric fracture and chronic bacterial infection. She underwent revision surgery to implant an antibiotic-loaded hip spacer with a constrained liner. The loss of her left trochanter is visible in this X-ray. Hip Implant Dislocation and Dissociation A Same-Day Correction A same-day revision surgery converted the temporary spacer to a final implant secured with screws and a constrained liner. Hip and Knee Reconstruction, Orthopedic surgery Morteza Meftah, MD, is a clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery who specializes in hip and knee reconstruction and in diagnosing and treating arthritis. He is chair of the Center for Orthopedic Innovation and co-director of Robotic and Computer-Assisted Joint Replacement Surgery. Heart Attack Accelerates Breast Cancer Dr. Kathryn Moore. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff “There are four million breast cancer survivors in the United States and they’re at increased risk of cardiovascular disease due to treatments and lifestyle changes that come with a cancer diagnosis,” says , Jean and David Blechman Professor of Cardiology. While this increased risk is known, questions have remained about whether a major cardiovascular event actually impacts cancer pathogenesis. In a letter published in Dr. Moore and colleagues used mouse models and human data to better understand the effects of myocardial infarction on breast cancer recurrence. The study is one of many that have paved the way for Dr. Moore to become a nationally renown cardiovascular researcher. In 2021, she was elected to the National Academy of Sciences and named the American Heart Association’s Distinguished Scientist in Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology. In 2022, she received the Gill Heart and Vascular Institute Award for Outstanding Contributions to Cardiovascular Research. Curiosity-Driven Research Just as with her other studies, Dr. Moore’s latest research into cardiovascular disease and cancer was driven by curiosity. “I was intrigued by our early finding that breast cancer survivors with a cardiovascular event have up to a 60 percent increased risk of recurrence, plus an elevated risk of death from their cancer,” Dr. Moore says. “I wanted to understand what it is about heart attack that is causing this elevated risk.” “We need to prevent heart attack to avoid worse cancer outcomes.” On her short list of possibilities was resultant ischemia, tissue damage, release of immunomodulatory factors, or other signaling changes. As it turned out, reprogramming of the immune system plays a major role. The Tumor Microenvironment Yields Answers As a first step, the researchers confirmed that myocardial infarction accelerates breast cancer tumor growth in mouse models. Then, they examined the post-heart attack tumor microenvironment for altered immune cell composition. Dr. Moore’s team found significant changes in levels of immune cells, specifically a sustained increase in circulating monocytes that were later recruited to the tumor site. There were no changes in numbers of macrophages, neutrophils, or dendritic cells. The elevated monocytes—monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells, or mMDSCs—are immunosuppressive. Depleting these cells eliminated the tumor growth advantage in mice following heart attack. The mMDSCs also had a transcriptional phenotype epigenetically imprinted in the bone marrow. “Mouse models revealed the heart attack reprograms hematopoetic cells in the bone marrow to be more immunosuppressive, which allows the tumors to grow faster,” Dr. Moore explains. Impact On Patient Care Dr. Moore’s team also performed a retrospective analysis to translate their findings to patients with early-stage breast cancer. The researchers found that, for patients with no existing cardiovascular disease, a post-diagnosis heart attack or similar was associated with a 59 percent increased rate of breast cancer recurrence and a breast cancer-specific mortality rate of 60 percent. “Already there are implications for physicians,” Dr. Moore says. “Cardiovascular risk factors should be carefully managed in cancer survivors. We need to prevent heart attack to avoid worse cancer outcomes.” Next, Dr. Moore is focusing on biochemical signals that may trigger the epigenetic reprogramming of bone marrow cells following heart attack. The work requires careful collaboration between the and the new at NYU Langone Health, of which Dr. Moore is the founding director. “Our goal was to create a center focused on interdisciplinary research, and cardiovascular disease in cancer is a great example,” she says. Leading a Global Study of Antithrombotics in Acute COVID-19 A hallmark of acute COVID-19 is the high incidence of thrombotic events associated with moderate to severe illness. The Accelerating COVID-19 Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines 4 ACUTE (ACTIV-4A) study, part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH)-coordinated ACTIV research program , is a landmark trial involving more than 3,000 patients in the U.S. and other countries investigating potential strategies to address vascular integrity and thromboinflammation in hospitalized patients with COVID-19. “Early on in the pandemic we noticed a lot of clotting, both microscopically and macroscopically—often in places where we don’t usually see it,” says and an expert on the etiology of thrombotic disease. Dr. Berger was appointed a co-principal investigator of ACTIV-4A after developing a pilot study on the use of heparin for preventing thrombotic events among patients with COVID-19 in the NYU Langone Health system. The NIH adapted the protocol for that study as the basis for the larger trial. “After just over a year’s work, we were able to change clinical practice.” International Collaboration Accelerates Results Another NYU Langone researcher, , the Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, was named study chair of ACTIV-4A. As a leader of complex international clinical trials such as OAT SHOCK , Dr. Hochman is known for her skills at developing and harmonizing protocols and data analysis plans, as well as fostering cooperation among researchers around the world. In addition to coordinating the work of over two dozen U.S. institutions, ACTIV-4A has collaborated with two multinational consortiums—Antithrombotic Therapy to Ameliorate Complications of COVID-19 (ATTACC, based in Canada), and Randomized, Embedded, Multifactorial Adaptive Platform Trial for Community-Acquired Pneumonia (REMAP-CAP, based in the United Kingdom). “During a pandemic, you need global collaboration,” Dr. Hochman explains. “By working with these partners, we’ve been able to get powerful datasets much more quickly than anyone could have done alone.” “We hypothesized that one reason patients with COVID-19 do badly is that their platelets are making the endothelium very active.” An Evolving Investigation In August 2021, the ACTIV-4A investigators and their global partners published initial findings in the New England Journal of Medicine— a pair of reports on prophylactic versus therapeutic heparin in patients moderately ill critically ill with COVID-19 Full-dose heparin, the studies showed, improved survival and other outcomes in the former group, but not the latter. The effects in critically ill patients tended toward harm. The following month, researchers led by Dr. Berger and , assistant professor of medicine and pathology, published a paper in Science Advances describing several pathways by which platelets amplify endotheliopathy in COVID-19. Although the study was not part of ACTIV-4A, its findings would influence the course of that trial. We hypothesized that one reason patients with COVID-19 do badly is that their platelets are making the endothelium very active ,” Dr. Berger explains. “We wanted to find out how that happens.” The team, including Dr. Hochman, identified two genes that are upregulated in the platelets of patients with COVID-19, leading to overproduction of proteins associated with increased clotting and vascular inflammation. The researchers also reported that medications known to block platelet activation via the P2Y12 receptor reduced inflammation in vessels related to COVID-19. And they showed that platelets from patients with COVID-19 alter endothelial cells largely via P-selectin, a cell adhesion molecule. These findings spurred new lines of inquiry in ACTIV-4A, beginning with a clinical trial of P2Y12 inhibitors combined with therapeutic heparin in 562 patients moderately ill with COVID-19. Directions for Further Research In November, at the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions, the ACTIV-4A investigators reported disappointing initial results: P2Y12 inhibitors failed to improve survival or disease severity in the moderately ill cohort. These results were recently published in Nonetheless, ACTIV-4A is continuing to test these drugs in critically ill patients. In addition, enrollment has begun for trials of a P-selectin inhibitor, crizanlizumab. Another new arm will test SGLT2 inhibitors, which have been shown to improve cardiovascular outcomes in diabetes by promoting endothelial integrity. ACTIV-4A has already had an impact, Dr. Hochman emphasizes. Many medical centers have stopped using therapeutic-dose heparin in hospitalized patients critically ill with COVID-19. In December, the American Society of Hematology issued draft guidelines recommending therapeutic heparin for inpatients with moderate illness. And in January, the NIH also updated its heparin guidelines to reflect the trial’s findings.  “After just over a year’s work, we were able to change clinical practice. I’m confident that we will continue to do so going forward,” Dr. Hochman says. Stay-At-Home Orders Lead to Cardiovascular Consequences Am J Prev Cardiol . 2021 Dec; 8: 100282. An analysis published in the American Journal of Preventive Cardiology found women and people of racial and ethnic minority groups experienced a substantial worsening of their lipid profiles during the early stay-at-home orders brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. Stay-at-home orders drastically altered dietary and exercise patterns for most people and may have even affected medication access and use, says senior author and preventive cardiologist To understand whether these public health measures affected cardiovascular risk, Dr. Heffron and colleagues compared nonHDL cholesterol levels in blood samples collected before and after the strict stay-at-home order in New York City. As a control for seasonality, they performed an identical comparison for the same time periods one year prior. Serial samples from more than 30,000 patients revealed a dramatic increase in nonHDL cholesterol levels (≥38 mg/dL), particularly among women and people from racial and ethnic minority groups. “The pandemic and subsequent public health measures may have produced unintended negative consequences for already at-risk groups.” “The pandemic and subsequent public health measures may have produced unintended negative consequences for already at-risk groups—exacerbating disparities in cardiovascular health and serving to highlight the tenuous position of particular populations,” the authors concluded. The results remained consistent even when the researchers restricted their analyses to people with unchanged lipid-lowering medication prescriptions across the observation periods. In total, more than half (55 percent) of the study population experienced increases in nonHDL-C levels during the stay-at-home order as compared to the same period in 2019. Complex Hernia Repair & Abdominal Wall Reconstruction Surgeons at NYU Langone’s Abdominal Core Health and Hernia Program are recognized leaders in the field of repair and abdominal wall reconstruction using the most advanced robotic surgical techniques. Our team specializes in repairing all types of hernia, including complex hernias and those that have recurred after a prior surgery. Learn more about our expertise in complex hernia repair and abdominal wall reconstruction and the surgeons who perform these procedures. The abdominal wall is made up of the muscles and other connective tissue that wrap around your body like a wide band. It extends from the bottom of your breastbone, or sternum, to your pelvis. These vital muscles and tissue, which protect the organs in your abdomen by holding them in place, are essential to your overall stability, balance, and ability to lead an active life. The most common abdominal wall condition is a hernia, which occurs when fat, tissue, or part of an organ protrudes through a weakened area or hole in the muscles or connective tissue of the abdominal wall. Our team treats all types of hernias, including the following: umbilical hernias, which occur near the navel incisional hernias, which happen when part of an organ or tissue protrudes through an incision or scar from previous abdominal surgery inguinal and femoral hernias, which occur in the groin area NYU Langone surgeons care for people with hiatal and paraesophageal hernias—which occur when a portion of the stomach bulges through the diaphragm and into the chest cavity—at our In addition to repairing simple and complex hernias, we also treat the following abdominal wall conditions: diastasis recti, a separation of the abdominal muscles that can occur during pregnancy athletic pubalgia—sometimes incorrectly called athletic hernia—a weakening or tearing of muscles in the abdominal wall that results in groin pain benign or malignant tumors of the abdominal wall and muscles Our Focus on Abdominal Core Health We take a holistic approach to your treatment, with a personalized plan that focuses not only on your surgical care, but also on helping you regain and maximize strength in the muscles of your core. Our care begins with your initial visit and addresses every facet of your treatment—surgery and recovery, pain management and wound care—as well as physical therapy provided by our physical therapists. When appropriate, we consult and collaborate with experts in other medical and surgical specialties at NYU Langone, including bariatric and plastic surgery. Experts at the Abdominal Core Health Program are active in clinical trials that test new technologies for abdominal surgery and in research on ways to improve its outcomes. In addition, our program participates in the Abdominal Core Health Quality Collaborative national database, which tracks the outcomes of abdominal surgery at medical institutions around the country. Our skilled surgeons use advanced techniques to treat hernias and all other conditions affecting the abdominal wall. David K. Halpern Fareed Cheema Advanced Robotic & Foregut Surgeon to Lead General Surgery Dr. Flavio Malcher to Lead Abdominal Core Health Program Accelerating Telehealth Research for Cancer Care The recent COVID-19 pandemic required oncologists across the Veterans Affairs (VA) healthcare system to adopt telehealth services. While this revealed benefits, there continue to be challenges, including access to devices as well as understanding how to use the technology. To address these barriers, NYU Langone Health’s has launched the Telehealth Research and Innovation for Veterans with Cancer (THRIVE) Center. The effort is supported by a prestigious $5 million grant from the National Cancer Institute’s Telehealth Research Centers of Excellence (TRACE) initiative Cancer Moonshot initiative “Many veterans, especially in rural areas, are potentially vulnerable to a digital divide in accessing telehealth services,” says , an associate professor of urology and population health at NYU Langone. “Many veterans, especially in rural areas, are potentially vulnerable to a digital divide in accessing telehealth services.” As part of the new initiative, Dr. Makarov and co-director , plan to study how social factors such as race and ethnicity, poverty, and rural residence impact the delivery of telehealth for cancer care. Examining Telehealth’s True Impact Established barriers to delivering efficient healthcare include geographical restrictions as well as long wait times. But just as telehealth has helped to minimize these roadblocks, its implementation has brought to light new hurdles. Some veterans, especially in rural areas, may have access to telehealth technology but have unreliable internet or cellular service, while others may have access but won’t adopt telehealth due to personal or cultural factors. Dr. Makarov believes more research is needed to understand how to engage these groups successfully, and he anticipates that such research could help to inform future policies on the use of this technology in veteran populations. Working in collaboration with the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), the THRIVE Center will focus on examining telehealth’s role in delivering cancer-related healthcare, providing support for diverse teams of researchers to conduct large-scale trials in real-world clinical settings. “The VHA is one of the largest integrated healthcare providers, delivering medical care to more than 9 million veterans in the United States, which makes it an ideal study setting,” Dr. Makarov says. Building Health Equity into Telehealth Services In addition to developing innovative ways to use telehealth in cancer care, the THRIVE center will focus on identifying and addressing telehealth-related disparities among underserved populations, including rural residents, racial and ethnic minorities, older adults, people with low socioeconomic status, and those with poor digital literacy. “This work will pave the way for having healthcare delivery look significantly different over the next five years.” Health systems like NYU Langone, with a mission to serve diverse communities, have a responsibility to research and establish best practices for patients, Dr. Makarov says. “We anticipate the lessons learned from this evaluation of the VA telehealth system for cancer care can be adopted and integrated into other health systems,” Dr. Makarov explains. “This work will pave the way for having healthcare delivery look significantly different over the next five years.” Urology, Urologic Oncology Danil V. Makarov, MD, is an associate professor of urology and population health and director of surgical research in the Department of Population Health. He also serves as co-leader of the Epidemiology and Cancer Control Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research interests include the development of new interventions to address prostate cancer disparities among underserved populations. Mapping the Opportunity for Focal Therapy An expert on this promising nonsurgical technique discusses research into benefits and best practices. Nationally renowned as an expert on prostate cancer and radical prostatectomy, , is now convinced of the promise of focal ablation—an evolving nonsurgical approach to treating prostate cancers. Here, he discusses what spurred his interest in focal therapy and how the robust prospective registry at is helping to define best practices. Pinpointing Sites of Clinically Significant Cancer Physician Focus: What advancements have helped the ield of focal therapy evolve? Dr. Lepor: Accurate localization of the sites of clinically significant prostate cancers is key to successful focal ablation. The work that was done here at NYU Langone Health in imaging and targeted biopsies really set the stage for the field of focal therapy. Historically, when urologists nationwide would do a biopsy of the prostate, we randomly inserted 12 needles into the gland. Ultrasound was our imaging platform at the time, and it does not provide information on where we should be focusing to detect cancer. When advancements in imaging came along, NYU Langone was one of the first centers to do MRI and later MRI–ultrasound fusion guided biopsy for prostate cancer. Once we were confident in our ability to reliably identify clinically significant cancer, we were ready to investigate focal therapy. What early research convinced you that focal therapy is a promising treatment option for prostate cancer? In 2018, we published a study in showing that MRI was extremely accurate at identifying index tumors, or the tumors likely to grow and metastasize. Of 59 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy and who were also potential candidates for focal therapy, only a small proportion of low-volume cancers would have been missed if those patients had received focal therapy. For me, that was the first study that confirmed that if we can reliably destroy the index cancer, then it would be safe to follow the rest of the prostate for the development of significant disease. A Favorable Approach What patient groups are best suited for focal therapy and how many of your patients choose this treatment approach? We are treating patients with clinically localized, intermediate-risk prostate cancer who would also be candidates for whole gland treatment. If a patient has low-risk cancer, we’re likely not going to use focal therapy since these men are best managed with active surveillance. Maybe 30 percent of the patients referred to me with prostate cancer are candidates for focal therapy, and when I give them the option, two-thirds choose focal therapy and one-third choose radical prostatectomy. There are many reasons for this, including the fact that focal therapy is an outpatient procedure, it doesn’t require hormone therapy, and we’ve never had a patient report incontinence. While focal therapy can affect sexual function, it is much less than with a surgical procedure, even with a nerve-sparing surgical procedure. In addition, if the cancer recurs, we still have every option available to us—we can do radiation therapy, remove the prostate, or do another focal ablation. Establishing Best Practices At NYU Langone, urologists no longer recommend a six-month MRI or biopsy following focal ablation. What led to this decision to defer early follow-up? We already have a robust prospective database of roughly 400 patients that have undergone focal therapy at our center. Using that database, Dr. James S. Wysock and I recently published a study in Prostate Cancer and Prostatic Diseases reporting that at six-month follow-up, when we aggressively biopsied for in-field disease, we detected residual cancer in only 2 percent of patients. In other words, we succeeded in destroying the index cancer in 98 percent of cases, confirming that focal ablation is an excellent treatment option for a subset of patients. Therefore, at our high-volume center with our expertise and stringent patient selection, a six-month follow-up is not necessary. “We succeeded in destroying the index cancer in 98 percent of cases, confirming that focal ablation is an excellent treatment option for a subset of patients.” We’re now assessing whether follow-up biopsy is necessary at two years, which to my knowledge, no series has ever assessed oncological outcomes from mandatory two-year biopsy. A Commitment to Follow-Up You’ve mentioned a need for thorough commitment from both the patient and the provider regarding follow-up after focal therapy. Can you elaborate? This is really important. In my opinion, the greatest risk to focal therapy is patients not coming back for their follow-up. With focal therapy, there is a real chance of leaving cancer behind or cancer recurring because the majority of the prostate is untreated. But if we find any residual disease early, then we have all those salvage options available—focal ablation, radiation, and surgery. If the patient doesn’t come back for five years, that may give too much of a lead time for that residual cancer to become a big problem. “In my opinion, the greatest risk to focal therapy is patients not coming back for their follow-up.” Of course, getting patients to come in for follow-up can be a challenge. We are trying to minimize this burden on patients by determining how long follow-up can be safely deferred, or identifying the subset of patients that can defer early follow-up. Assessing Sexual Health After Partial Gland Cryoablation Herbert Lepor, MD, and James S. Wysock, MD Given the limitations associated with radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy, partial gland cryoablation (PGCA) has gained an increased role in patients with low- and intermediate-risk prostate cancer. For those patients who choose PGCA to minimize quality of life adverse events, it is essential to set realistic expectations for sexual function after treatment. recent study published in , urologic oncologists , examined sexual function following primary PGCA over a two-year period to help providers have more informed discussions with patients concerning erectile function. “While all treatments for localized prostate cancer must balance oncological and functional outcomes, we hope this research equips providers with key information to better discuss expectations around sexual function following PGCA.” “Our study uniquely stratifies sexual function outcomes according to baseline erectile function and examines factors associated with reduced sexual function,” says Dr. Wysock. “While all treatments for localized prostate cancer must balance oncological and functional outcomes, we hope this research equips providers with key information to better discuss expectations around sexual function following PGCA.” Evaluating Functional Outcomes In March 2017, the researchers initiated a prospective outcomes registry that captures both oncological and functional outcomes following PGCA. For the present study, they identified men who met the following eligibility criteria: a PIRADS 2-5 lesion concordant with unilateral GGG 1-3 disease, no gross extra-prostatic extension on multiparametric MRI (mpMRI), GGG >1 contralateral to the region of interest, or distal apical disease on mpMRI. In total, 106 patients met inclusion criteria and they completed the Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) scale at baseline, 6 months, and 24 months. The ability to sustain erection (also known as “potency”) was defined as a score of 3 or greater on question 2 of the SHIM index, after which they measured median SHIM scores and the proportion of men reporting “potency” at baseline, 6 months, and 24 months, and compared erectile function at these respective timepoints. Erectile Function Improves Over Time The results showed a statistically significant decrease in SHIM scores between baseline and 6 months, and baseline and 24 months, for the entire cohort and for all subgroups stratified according to baseline erectile dysfunction (ED) severity. However, significant improvements in median SHIM scores were observed between 6 and 24 months for men with no ED or mild ED at baseline. In addition, for men with no ED at baseline, 93 percent regained potency at 24 months. “These sexual function outcomes following PGCA are far superior to those achieved following radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.” “These sexual function outcomes following PGCA are far superior to those achieved following radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy,” says Dr. Lepor. “Many of my patients choose to undergo PGCA over radical prostatectomy due to superior quality of life outcomes.” Questions Still Remain In order to further optimize sexual function outcomes, initiating PDE5 inhibitors immediately after PGCA may be a reasonable strategy, adds Dr. Wysock. According to Dr. Lepor, all treatments for prostate cancer must balance oncological control and functional outcomes, noting that the three-year oncological outcomes are currently under review, with early observations suggesting that these encouraging sexual function outcomes are achieved equally with strong oncological outcomes. In future studies, the researchers will continue to evaluate whether PGCA preserves quality of life while maintaining long-term disease control. Fewer Women Plan Pregnancy Following First Wave of COVID-19 A study of New York City mothers enrolled in the NYU Children’s Health and Environment Study (NYU CHES) suggested the early months of the pandemic resulted in fewer women planning or attempting to become pregnant, which may have long-term effects on fertility rates. In the cross-sectional study of 1,179 mothers, published in JAMA Network Open , nearly half of women who had been trying to become pregnant reported that they had ceased attempting to conceive in the first few months of the city’s initial COVID-19 wave in April 2020. More than a third who had been contemplating trying for pregnancy pre-COVID reported they were no longer considering it. Further, fewer than half those women who ceased trying to become pregnant thought they would resume trying after the pandemic. Though early evidence drawn from vital statistics data has demonstrated a steeper decline in U.S. births since the onset of the pandemic, this is the first epidemiologic study of U.S. women in an area heavily impacted by COVID-19. Impact on Decision-making The pandemic appears to have exacerbated existing social and financial pressures that were already negatively impacting pregnancy intention and, consequently, the U.S. birth rate. The study’s findings indicated that women with higher stress levels, lower education, and greater financial insecurity were more likely to cease trying or planning to become pregnant. “Women’s decision-making when it comes to building families tends to track closely with financial and social dynamics,” notes Linda G. Kahn, PhD, MPH , assistant professor in pediatrics and population health. “The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed underlying weaknesses in our social support system for women and families, and appears to be accelerating a decline in the U.S. birth rate that began with the 2008 recession.” More Research Opportunities One of NYU Langone’s largest National Institutes of Health-funded studies, the NYU CHES database contains bio samples and exposure data from more than 3,500 New York City women enrolled during the first trimester of pregnancy. The cohort represents a diverse cross-section of race, ethnicity, education, and incomes. Data gathered are used to examine environmental impacts on pregnant women and their children. “It would be interesting to investigate whether similar declines in pregnancy intention followed outbreaks in other ‘hotspots’ across the nation, as well as whether the availability of vaccination has moderated this response.” According to Dr. Kahn and co-author , clinical associate professor in obstetrics and gynecology and site director for the Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn, geographic information in the database affords unique research opportunities. Considerations for Pregnancy Delay In addition to the broader economic and social ramifications of a declining birth rate in conjunction with an aging population, postponing pregnancy has consequences on the individual level. Older women may require costly fertility treatments when they are ready to conceive, an option that is out of reach for many and one that is not without risks to women and infants, the researchers say. “Delaying childbearing creates several downstream clinical risks for women, including pregnancy complications such as hypertension and cardiovascular conditions associated with advanced maternal age and fertility treatments,” notes Dr. Mehta-Lee. “Assisted reproduction is not always the panacea patients assume it is, so we need to keep these factors in mind when counseling patients about their ability to have children later in life.” Linda G. Kahn, MPH, PhD Linda G. Kahn, MPH, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Departments of Pediatrics and Population Health at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Her research interests include the role of preconception and prenatal environmental exposures in pregnancy and postpartum maternal health; predictors of male and female reproductive development and fertility; and health outcomes of assisted reproduction in both women and children. Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation: Examining a Case from the Five-Year Outcomes Study Dr. Herbert Lepor spotlights one of the 298 cases included in the landmark prospective study. Over the past decade, we have utilized laser, radio frequency, electroporation, high-intensity focused energy, and cryo-therapy at NYU Langone Health to ablate focal disease. Currently, the overwhelming majority of focal therapies (FTs) at NYU Langone are performed using cryo-therapy because of its superior oncological outcomes. Men undergoing FTs are at risk for developing in-field, out-of-field, or metastatic disease recurrences. In-field disease recurrence develops due to failure to completely eradicate the index focal lesion. Out-of-field disease recurrence develops due to failure to detect co-existing clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa), or the development of csPCa in the untreated gland. Metastatic disease develops due to pre-existing metastasis or the development of metastasis arising from local recurrences. In 2017, with , I initiated an IRB-approved prospective study to rigorously assess functional and oncological outcomes following primary partial gland cryoablation (PPGCA). Our published experience to date has demonstrated the following: the ability to reliably ablate the index lesion a low rate of in- and out-of-field disease recurrence at three years no urinary incontinence or rectal injuries an improvement in lower urinary symptoms less adverse impact on sexual function than radical prostatectomy (RP) We are presenting our five-year oncological outcomes on May 5, 2024, at the American Urological Association (AUA) Annual Meeting. The following case features one of the 298 subjects who met the eligibility criteria for this study. [See the results from the five-year study here The patient, in his mid-50s at the time of initial presentation in 2018, had a progressively rising PSA level—to 4.4 ng/ml—and a benign digital rectal exam (DRE). He underwent a multiparametric MRI (mpMRI), which showed a 10×5-mm Prostate Imaging–Reporting and Data System (PI-RADS) 4 region of interest in the left medial apical peripheral zone. An MRI targeted, 12 cores systematic biopsy (SB) demonstrated multiple Gleason Grade Group (GGG) 1 and 2 cancers in the targeted and left SB. We discussed RP, radiation therapy (RT), and FT for managing his focal intermediate risk prostate cancer. Preserving erectile and urinary function and avoiding androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) were the primary factors leading to a shared decision to proceed with PPGCA. The PPGCA was performed shortly thereafter under general anesthesia using four cryo-probes. The patient was discharged by early afternoon the same day, and the Foley catheter was removed three days post-operatively. The patient returned to unrestricted activities immediately after catheter removal. He never experienced any level of incontinence. The patient was one of our early PPGCA cases, and the surveillance protocol was the following: • PSA every six months • DRE annually • mpMRI at six months, then at two years, three years six months, and five years; a protocol biopsy, which included sampling the prior MRI target, and any new in- or out-of-field regions of interest suspicious for prostate cancer, and 12 SB. This table summarizes the functional and oncological outcomes at six months and five years post-treatment. Outcome Six-Month Results Five-Year Results IPSS SHIM 23 Semen Volume Markedly reduced Climacturia PSA (ng/mL) 0.81 1.2 mpMRI Left PIRADS 4 lesion no longer identified, replaced by an ablation cavity. PIRADS 1 atrophy of the left lobe, no evidence of in- or out-of-field disease. Biopsy Results Ablation cavity and 6 left SB showed only treatment effect. Benign The patient’s future surveillance protocol will be the following: • MRI at seven years six months, and 10 years • protocol biopsy at 10 years • for-cause biopsy as clinically indicated I have offered and performed FTs since 2012 based on the following observations and assumptions • the aggressiveness of prostate cancer, typically defined by an index tumor • MRI identifies the index cancer in candidates for PGA • candidates for FTs rarely have significant prostate cancer outside the ablation zone • majority of men undergoing RP do not have prostate cancer or metastasis-free survival compared to watchful waiting (WW) • low-risk and select cases of intermediate-low-risk disease candidates for active surveillance (AS) • PGA reliably destroys in-field prostate cancer • preserving quality of life is a high priority for men with clinically localized cancer There are many energy sources commercially available to ablate prostate cancer. Cryo-therapy is the most versatile energy source and, in our hands, achieves the highest level of oncological control, which is further supported by our five-year outcomes. A limitation of high-intensity-focused ultrasound (HIFU) is its inability to treat anterior tumors or glands with significant calcifications. We believe the inferior oncological outcomes of HIFU are attributed to failure to achieve confluence of energy in the ablative field, which may be rectified by delivering a second treatment as we do with cryoablation. The advantage of HIFU over cryoablation is the ability to develop a more precise treatment plan. If double treatment overcomes the inferior in-field recurrence rates, HIFU may become our preferred energy source for small peripheral zone lesions that abut the neurovascular bundle, or those immediately underneath the prostatic urethra. Our five-year oncological outcomes emphasize the need for active surveillance post-FT. Many of the csPCa recurrent cancers are low-volume Gleason pattern 4, which are amenable to AS based on the PROTECT trial. A salvage ablation is performed for the majority of in- and out-of-field csPCa recurrences requiring intervention. The majority of cases requiring whole-gland salvage treatment are managed with salvage RT. While the literature indicates salvage RP is safely performed, we believe it is slightly more technically challenging due to the peri-prostatic fibrosis. Unlike salvage RP after radiation therapy, surgical planes are often readily achieved contralateral to the ablation, which facilitates mobilization of the prostate. In our experience, over two-thirds of men with “focal” intermediate-risk disease will elect FTs over whole-gland treatments. Our patients make an informed decision based on my published functional and oncological outcomes for both RP and FT. The factors influencing the decision to elect FT are: • availability as an outpatient procedure, with expedited return to work and activities • avoidance of ADT • no cases of incontinence or rectal injury • a less significant impact on sexual function We now counsel patients with intermediate-risk disease that at five years, they have a 91 percent chance of avoiding the morbidity of whole-gland interventions, while the other nine percent undergo salvage treatments without greater risk than primary intervention. In 2012, I was confident that FTs would emerge as a reasonable option for intermediate risk disease, especially when preserving quality of life is a high priority. After a decade of critically evaluating both functional and oncological outcomes following FTs, and specifically cryo-therapy, we feel this option should be presented to men with focal intermediate risk disease. 1.           Wysock et al. (2021). Early oncological control following partial gland cryo-ablation: a prospective experience specifying reflex MRI-guided biopsy of the ablation zone. 2.           Wysock et al. (2023). Biopsy assessment of oncologic control 3 years following primary partial gland cryoablation: a prospective cohort study of men with intermediate-risk prostate cancer. The Journal of Urology 3.           Thakker et al. (2022). Early functional outcomes following partial gland cryo-ablation. 4.           Wysock et al. (2022). Two-year functional outcomes stratified according to baseline erectile function following partial gland cryo-ablation. 5.           Kenigsberg et al. (2018). The use of magnetic resonance imaging to predict oncological control among candidates for focal ablation of prostate cancer. Neurological Impacts of Long COVID: Finding Pathways Toward Treatment Jennifer Frontera, MD, and Andrea Troxel, ScD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff , a neurocritical care expert, and biostatistician , are leading NYU Langone Health’s participation in the NIH-funded COVID-19 NeuroDatabank and NeuroBiobank initiatives to centralize and expand availability of post-COVID neurological data. The initiatives offer access to aggregate outcomes information that could help researchers reveal the pathological mechanisms behind post-COVID neurological symptoms that impact some patients long after infection. The Heterogeneous Symptoms of “Long COVID” By now, we know that COVID-19 and post-COVID syndrome—“long COVID”—are frequently accompanied by neurological symptoms. What have we learned so far about the connection? Dr. Frontera: We’ve learned a lot in two years, but we’re still working to fully tease out the constellation of neurological sequelae in severe COVID and post-COVID syndrome, defined by persistent symptoms at least four weeks following infection onset. These post-acute symptoms are notably heterogenous, spanning everything from fatigue, depression, and , to brain fog, headache and dizziness. We’ve even found biomarkers in a subset of patients with COVID that we typically see in patients with Alzheimer’s disease, possibly due to brain injury triggered by inflammation. As we continue to gather patient data over time, we’re now working to better understand the specific mechanisms that would better define a post-COVID neurological syndrome. Symptoms Linger After Severe Disease What have you observed from that data in terms of improvement of COVID-related neurological symptoms over time? Dr. Troxel: In a recent study, we tracked outcomes data from patients at six and 12 months into their recovery. Notably, at 12 months post-hospitalization, we found that cognitive symptoms persisted in half of patients and nearly 90 percent had abnormal functional, cognitive, or Neuro-QoL metrics for anxiety, depression, fatigue, and sleep. We did find an improvement in patients’ cognitive and anxiety scores between the six and 12-month milestones. It’s not clear whether these results are generalizable to those patients who have more mild or moderate COVID cases. We’ve also seen that the omicron variant appears less likely to result in persistent neurological symptoms, specifically hypoxia and sepsis. Those are the types of findings we’re still working to tease out. Gathering Data to Better Target Treatment How does the NIH COVID-19 NeuroDatabank project fit in with those efforts? The databank was launched to develop a pool of COVID-related neurological data that is more granular than what we could glean from electronic health records alone. NYU Langone is one of 10 national sites contributing data, and as the one-time epicenter of the pandemic in New York City, we are an anchor of the database with the largest data component. The goal is to expand our understanding of neurologic phenotypes, risk factors, socioeconomic factors, and therapeutic responses among patients with COVID-related neurological syndromes. Data in the NeuroDatabank will also be compared with a NeuroBiobank created with clinically collected samples from these patients to align clinical findings with biological markers. Through another NIH-funded project, the RECOVER initiative , we’re also studying autopsy data to better understand the mechanisms of neurological inflammation in acute COVID—for example, whether it is caused by a breakdown of the blood–brain barrier. How do you hope this data will help inform treatment strategies going forward in patients with COVID-associated neurological sequelae? “The rich data we collect can help to better stratify patients according to the particular pathway behind their symptoms.” We found that when physicians took a holistic approach to patient management, including addressing neuropsychiatric symptoms of anxiety, depression, and fatigue along with headache and cognitive symptoms, that most patients reported substantial improvement in symptoms. As we try to fine-tune therapies and develop cognitive rehabilitation programs, the rich data we collect can help to better stratify patients according to the particular pathway behind their symptoms. As studies are developed from the databases, we are hopeful that emerging insights will help us better target interventions for these patients. Unraveling Glial Contributions to Alzheimer’s Disease Research has established that non-neuronal cells of the central nervous system , notably glia, are important contributors to Alzheimer’s disease (AD) pathogenesis , which includes changes in normal physiological functions, including synapse maintenance, metabolism, structural support, and blood-brain barrier integrity. Reactive astrocytes induced by immune cell dysfunction and inflammatory responses to pathogenic proteins and dying cells have been implicated in several of these processes. In addition, oligodendrocytes are also of interest in AD pathogenesis given their role in myelin production and axon support required for optimum brain function. It is not yet clear, however, how subtypes of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes are altered in AD. Shane A. Liddelow, PhD , an assistant professor of neuroscience and physiology and co-director of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology , leads a research team that is using advanced methods including single-nuclei RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) and spatial transcriptomics to assess putative functional heterogeneity in glia during AD. A Novel snRNA-seq Dataset In a recent study published in Neuron, the team presented a snRNA-seq dataset characterizing astrocytes and oligodendrocytes isolated from human postmortem prefrontal cortex samples from AD and age-matched non-symptomatic patients, with all individuals genotyped and controlled for apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype Ɛ2/3. APOE is a major risk factor for AD, Dr. Liddelow explains. “Patients with APOE Ɛ4 are up to 17 times more likely to develop the disease.” “We chose this patient population as it is underrepresented in other sequencing studies and individuals present with AD dementia onset at later ages, making age matching between non-symptomatic and AD patients more similar.” Dr. Liddelow and his team identified global and subtype-specific transcriptomic changes between astrocytes and oligodendrocytes isolated from patients with AD versus those from non-symptomatic patients. In addition, they localized heterogeneous astrocyte subtypes to specific cortical regions in the healthy and inflamed brain using published human and mouse spatial transcriptomics datasets. “We identified unique and previously undefinable astrocyte subpopulations in all of our datasets,” Dr. Liddelow says. A Resource for Further Research These data, which are freely available to all researchers on an online portal, were also integrated with published AD snRNA-seq datasets. Dr. Liddelow hopes these combined datasets will provide a paired sequencing and pathology assessment resource that can be used to further explore the breadth of astrocyte and oligodendrocyte transcriptomic changes in AD. However, while integration with published datasets highlight novel and putative functional populations of glia in AD, future studies will be required to evaluate these subpopulations and their potential for therapeutic modulation. “We hope that continued integration of our data with future snRNA-seq and spatial datasets will add greater insight to these and many new questions.” “We hope that continued integration of our data with future snRNA-seq and spatial datasets will add greater insight to these and many new questions in AD,” says Dr. Liddelow. Neuroscience, Ophthalmology Shane A. Liddelow, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Neuroscience Institute and co-director of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology. His research centers around the role of astrocytes in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. High COVID-19 Antibody Levels in Newborns of Women Vaccinated During Pregnancy In a study of newborns of mothers vaccinated against COVID-19 during pregnancy, 36 cord blood samples were tested, and 100 percent showed transplacental antibody transfer and 34 samples had a titer of more than 250 units/mL. ADAPTED FROM: Am J Obstet Gynecol MFM . 2021 Nov; 3(6): 100481. No increase in risk was identified for mother or baby during pregnancy or birth among those who were vaccinated, consistent with other reports . The findings offer possible encouragement for increased vaccine adoption among pregnant mothers seeking to protect themselves and their babies during the first months of life. A study published in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology – Maternal-Fetal Medicine found protective antibodies in the cord blood of all 36 participant neonates whose mothers received either the Pfizer–BioNTech or Moderna vaccine during pregnancy. Study design distinguished between antibodies associated with natural infection or vaccination. The highest levels were observed among newborns whose mothers were vaccinated during the second half of pregnancy. “Studies continue to reinforce the importance of vaccines in preventing severe illness in both mothers and babies.” “Studies continue to reinforce the importance of vaccines in preventing severe illness in both mothers and babies,” says , Silverman Professor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, and a principal investigator. “If babies are born with antibodies, it could protect them early-on, when they are most vulnerable.” Positive Outcomes for In-Office Needle Arthroscopy in Treating Anterior Ankle Impingement Compared with traditional arthroscopic procedures, NanoScope in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA) confers multiple benefits, including no general anesthetic, 2 incisions of 2 millimeters allow for immediate mobilization, superior median time-to-return for work and sports activities, decrease in PROMIS pain intensity T scores, high foot and ankle outcome scores (FAOS), low complication rate, and high patient satisfaction. Source: Arthroscopy NanoScope in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA) recovery outcomes include a median time-to-return to work of 1.98 days (for all patients who previously worked) and to sports activities of 3.9 weeks (for 26 of 27 patients who had previously played sports). Foot and ankle outcome scores (FAOS) measurements at final follow-up were 79.4 ± 11.9 for symptoms, 82.9 ± 15.3 for pain, 83.5 ± 15.4 for daily activities, 71.9 ± 18.5 for sports activities, and 64.3 ± 21.4 for quality of life. Source: Patients with anterior ankle impingement often require surgical resection of bony spurs and soft tissue impingement, traditionally achieved via open or arthroscopic anterior ankle debridement in an OR. Building on older designs of an alternative known as in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA), , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health have pioneered a minimally invasive nano-arthroscopy system (the NanoScope™ system). In a new study, , Dr. Kennedy’s team and collaborators in the Netherlands evaluated the clinical outcomes and patient experience of 31 athletic individuals who underwent the IONA procedure for an anterior ankle impingement. They found that all patients who had worked prior to the IONA procedure returned to work, and 26 of 27 patients returned to their sports activities. These results are far superior to those from open or traditional arthroscopic procedures. “I think we are heading toward a time when visiting an orthopedic surgeon will be more like visiting your dentist.” Overall, the IONA alternative resulted in significant pain reduction, a low complication rate, and excellent patient-reported outcomes. “I think we are heading toward a time when visiting an orthopedic surgeon will be more like visiting your dentist—you’ll go in for a small procedure under local anesthetic and expect to leave on the same day,” Dr. Kennedy says. Dr. Kennedy has received support from the Ohnell Family Foundation and Mr. and Mrs. Michael J. Levitt; he is also a consultant for Arteriocyte Industries (Isto Biologics) and Arthrex®, which produces the NanoScope™. More Evidence that EFCT Improves Cesarean Outcomes Women who undergo a cesarean delivery with the endometrium-free uterine closure technique (EFCT) to close the incision are more likely to heal with small to no residual uterine scar defect than those with a routine closure, according to a new study in the Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine “In pregnant women, uterine scarring can lead to abnormal implantation or attachment of the placenta, known as placenta accreta, and cause life-threatening conditions and severe blood loss,” says Clarel Antoine, MD , lead author and a pioneer in the EFCT for cesarean births. “In non-pregnant women, uterine scars can cause other issues including irregular vaginal bleeding, severe menstrual cramps, painful intercourse, and infertility.” The study compared the prevalence and size of post-cesarean scar defects following the EFCT versus a routine closure technique using saline infusion sonohysterography. The researchers evaluated 45 women with a history of at least one cesarean delivery. They found uterine scar development was six times higher with a routine uterine closure compared to births with EFCT. Building Upon Previous Findings In 2019, Dr. Antoine and his colleagues published a study in the Journal of Maternal-Fetal & Neonatal Medicine showing that none of 727 patients treated with the EFCT during the surgical closure of the uterus experienced placenta accreta in their cesarean scars. The sample included patients with up to nine consecutive cesarean deliveries and outcomes were positive regardless of the number of repeat cesarean deliveries a person had. “This showed the exclusion of the endometrium during the EFCT was associated with fewer placental abnormalities in subsequent pregnancies and reduced life-threatening maternal morbidity for future cesarean deliveries,” says Dr. Antoine. “The exclusion of the endometrium during the EFCT was associated with fewer placental abnormalities in subsequent pregnancies and reduced life-threatening maternal morbidity for future cesarean deliveries.” Looking Ahead The latest study further confirms that the EFCT enables restoration of normal anatomy and physiology after cesarean delivery. “These findings should have a major impact on the way cesarean deliveries are currently performed, which can reduce severe maternal complications and save the lives of mothers nationally,” says senior author Ilan E. Timor, MD , an internationally recognized expert in obstetric and gynecologic ultrasonography. “These findings should have a major impact on the way cesarean deliveries are currently performed.” “Over the years, I’ve examined uterine scars using saline infusion sonohysterography. It’s interesting to see with this study that the patients with an EFCT closure had significantly smaller or even no residual scarring at the site of the incision.” Currently, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists does not endorse any particular method of closing the uterus after a cesarean delivery. Dr. Antoine and his team hopes this study could inform a rethinking of the current recommendations. Clarel Antoine, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology. His research focuses on cesarean delivery, including the development of new surgical techniques to better maternal outcomes. Dr. Antoine is leading the first long-term study utilizing advanced imaging to identify intrinsic surgical details that may help characterize post-cesarean long-term complications. Ilan E. Timor, MD, is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology. He is an internationally recognized expert in obstetric and gynecologic ultrasonography. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts joined other world leaders in Seattle for the 2022 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Including the Optic Nerve Could Boost Early MS Diagnosis Ushering Neurology into a New Era of Collaboration Shane A. Liddelow, PhD, and Un Jung Kang, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary was launched in 2021 with a unique vision to foster new collaborative models not just within neurology, but across all discliplines conducting basic science and clinical research that can help to illuminate the common mechanisms underlying neurodegenerative disorders.The center’s co-directors are Shane A. Liddelow, PhD , an assistant professor of neuroscience and physiology, and Un Jung Kang , the Founders Professor of Neurology and director of translational research at the Marlene Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders . Here, they discuss how their different footholds in basic research and clinical practice, as well as the ambitious multidisciplinary partnerships they are forging across NYU Langone, are driving the center’s successful growth. Recasting the Mold for Neurologic Research What is your long-term vision for the center and how is it a different way of thinking? Dr. Liddelow: Our vision is to integrate all relevant disciplines and departments across NYU Langone to further enable collaborative research teams to tackle ever more complex disease-focused questions. With over 250 research laboratories on campus, the goal of achieving harmonized, cross-discipline collaboration is a large undertaking. Many of these diseases represent cohorts of patients with no current effective therapies, or with rare diseases that may affect only a handful of patients across the globe. As neuroscience discoveries continue to accelerate, we recognize that understanding the interaction of non-neuronal systems in relation to the changes that occur within the brain is essential. It is for this reason that our starting focus is on glia and the immune system—uncovering the common responses or dysfunctions that occur across seemingly disconnected diseases. Dr. Kang: An important aspect of our center is how it integrates basic science with clinical knowledge. In particular, we want to understand how the brain interacts with the body and how neurons interact with non-neuronal cells. “As neuroscience discoveries continue to accelerate, we recognize that understanding the interaction of non-neuronal systems in relation to the changes that occur within the brain is essential.” How do you define interdisciplinary neurology, then? Classically, the field of neurology evolved from describing manifestations of abnormal brain function to understanding underlying neuropathology. Today, our subspecialities are still divided along phenomenological boundaries. Now we know that many seemingly disparate neurological disorders may share a common molecular etiology.  For example, in addition to being a movement disorders or a sleep disorders specialist focused on understanding symptoms, we need to understand abnormalities in alpha-synuclein, a presynaptic neuronal protein that is linked to both problems and develop therapies that can treat both. A New Research Platform What are a few notable projects already underway or in planning through the center? The center’s work will focus initially on four main research projects , one of which is a project I’m leading on the role of astrocyte-derived toxic lipids in neurodegenerative disease . We recently identified a reactive astrocyte subtype that forms after acute injuries and in chronic neurodegeneration in both rodents and humans. We show these astrocytes to be potently neurotoxic and that saturated lipids, in particular long-chain free fatty acids, drive this neurotoxicity and are investigating how a lack of neurotoxic lipids can preserve neuron health in models of chronic neurodegeneration. For that project, our long-term goal is to define pathways in neurotoxic reactive astrocytes and susceptible neuron populations that will provide a blueprint to develop novel therapeutic strategies for a range of neurodegenerative diseases like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, and glaucoma. Other projects encompass the measurement of intra-patient variability using technological approaches, with a focus on multiple sclerosis, and and the integration of changes in the microbiome and brain function in patients with epilepsy. A project spearheaded by Dr. Kang’s research group is focused on changes in glia during multiple system atrophy —a rare neurodegenerative disorder that affects autonomic functions. The project in my laboratory attempts to understand how abnormal oligodendrocytes produce neuronal degeneration in multiple system atrophy by studying molecular changes of frozen postmortem human brain at the single-cell level. We examine alpha-synuclein abnormalities as a driving factor of neurodegeneration in various related diseases.  As Dr. Liddelow previously described, an epilepsy expert is building a framework for how the gut microbiome, peripheral immune system, and the central nervous system interact before and after seizure. We hypothesize that such mechanisms are also likely to exist in other neurological disorders.  In another main project, a multiple sclerosis researcher is examining subtle physiological changes in prodromal stages of multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease. Since future disease modifying therapies will be most effective in early prodomal stages, developing early detection and prediction methods is critical. We are also hosting a request for applications for pilot grants open to all research faculty at NYU Langone to encourage cross-disciplinary projects from a team of clinical and basic researchers, with an emphasis on early career researchers. Anticipating a Ripple Effect Looking ahead, what other opportunities or potential impacts do you envision for the center’s work? Improving communication between internal research groups is a key opportunity for the center. Researchers may be working on the same problem, but are unaware due to a lack of time or knowledge of exciting discoveries. The center will continue to develop as a platform for increasing communication between researchers. In addition, we hope the center will foster data democratization beyond NYU Langone. We plan to make research data available more broadly through publicaly accessible databases. We are also looking at new means of disseminating research, such as leveraging social media. We are also excited about the generational impact of interdisciplinary neurology in training future cohorts of researchers and clinicians. At the heart of improving education for both basic science and clinical trainees is to increase their exposure to different disciplines. Having PhD students shadow a neurologist and clinical fellows spend time in a research lab can only help foster more collaboration. “We are also excited about the generational impact of interdisciplinary neurology in training future cohorts of researchers and clinicians.” Un Jung Kang, MD Un Jung Kang, MD, is the Founders Professor of Neurology, a professor of neuroscience and physiology, director of translational research at the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders, and co-director of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology. Mondor’s Disease: A Case Report & Overview of the Rare Condition Dr. Seth Cohen discusses how he diagnosed the disease in a patient with penile pain and a cord-like structure. Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation: Examining a Case from the Five-Year Outcomes Study Repeat Biopsy Helps Catch Cancer in Patients with Suspicious Prostate Lesions All 36 men (38 ROIs) enrolled to the study with PI-RADS 4/5 ROI and no clinically significant prostate cancer (csPA) on initial biopsy underwent repeat MRI, following which 14 ROIs were downgraded while 24 ROIs remained suspicious. Of the 20 ROIs that underwent repeat biopsy, 30% were benign, 30% were Gleason grade group (GGG) 1, and 40% were GGG ≥ 2. ADAPTED FROM: Can Urol Assoc J . 2022;16(12):418-422. Men with PI-RADS 4 or 5 ROI but no evidence of clinically significant prostate cancer defined as any Gleason pattern 4 disease following an initial biopsy should undergo early repeat MRI, and potentially repeat biopsy. That is the conclusion from a recent prospective study from investigators at NYU Langone Health, which reports that repeat biopsy has a clinically significant cancer detection rate of 40 percent. “This diagnostic strategy will decrease false negative biopsies in men presenting with high risk of harboring clinically significant disease.” Canadian Urological Association Journal , the study evaluated 36 men with at least one PI-RADS 4 or 5 ROI and no clinically significant cancer on prior MRI fusion target biopsy plus systemic biopsy. All patients underwent repeat MRI, which led to 14 ROIs being downgraded to PI-RADS 1 or 2. A total of 20 ROIs remained suspicious following repeat MRI and were subjected to repeat targeted and systematic biopsy, with eight ultimately found to harbor clinically significant cancer. All repeat biopsies were completed within one year of the initial biopsy, suggesting that the detection of prostate cancer can be attributed to sampling error rather than disease progression. The investigators also report that a high baseline level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) may serve as a predictor of finding cancer on repeat biopsy. “Our study supports a recommendation for early repeat biopsy for patients with PI-RADS 4 or 5 exhibiting no clinically significant cancer on initial biopsy who have persistently suspicious PI-RADS greater than 2 ROI,” says urologic oncologist , senior author of the study. “This diagnostic strategy will decrease false negative biopsies in men presenting with high risk of harboring clinically significant disease.” Metabolic Enzymes Mark New Targets in Bladder Cancer By detailing the essential roles of metabolic enzymes in bladder cancer, researchers at NYU Langone Health and have identified novel therapeutic strategies that may help in overcoming cisplatin resistance. The innovative approaches take aim at two glycolytic enzymes—enolase-1 and PKM2—shown to promote tumor growth by enhancing the functions of oncogenes. “In almost every bladder tumor type, we find both of these enzymes are over-expressed,” says Xue-Ru Wu, MD , principal investigator of the research team and the Bruce and Cynthia Sherman Professor of Urological Research and Innovation. Preliminary data also indicate both enzymes are induced by cisplatin, suggesting a role in acquired resistance. “If we take cells grown in culture, expose them to increasing concentrations of cisplatin, and then look at these enzymes, they’re markedly induced,” says Dr. Wu. “We show that the two enzymes play different roles. Enolase-1 can drive tumor initiation while PKM2 supports tumor promotion.” Efforts are now underway to identify and test inhibitors that can be used in combination with cisplatin and other chemotherapies. Metabolism and Malignancy Reprogrammed metabolism is a hallmark of cancer . While healthy cells rely heavily on oxidative phosphorylation, cancer cells commonly switch to aerobic glycolysis to fuel their uncontrolled growth. Yet, “bladder cancer metabolism is an area that people have paid relatively little attention to,” says Dr. Wu. In studying the process, his team discovered that some glycolytic enzymes not only prop up the proliferative metabolism of bladder cancer cells but also moonlight as oncogenes by tempering the normal function of tumor suppressors. This was demonstrated in a 2021 report from his group in , which revealed that enolase-1, a main glycolytic enzyme, functionally disables CDK inhibitors 4 and 6, leaving cell cycle progression unchecked. A subsequent study from the group in reported that PKM2, another key glycolytic enzyme, enhances angiogenesis by augmenting the angiogenic factor STAT3. “We show that the two enzymes play different roles,” says Dr. Wu. “Enolase-1 can drive tumor initiation while PKM2 supports tumor promotion.” Overcoming Cisplatin Resistance The next step is to identify inhibitors of the enzymes, which Dr. Wu and colleagues are pursuing by repurposing existing drugs and by screening for new agents. Pairing these inhibitors with cisplatin-based chemotherapies may serve to address resistance and improve treatment efficacy, all while minimizing treatment-associated toxicities. According to Dr. Wu, similar ideas are being tested in other cancer types, but little focus has been placed on bladder cancer. “Utilizing the tumor cell’s metabolic bypass to overcome chemotherapy-based treatment resistance is very attractive. It’s preferable that you target a pathway that’s different from those targeted by existing therapeutics, and this approach does just that.” “Utilizing the tumor cell’s metabolic bypass to overcome chemotherapy-based treatment resistance is very attractive,” says Dr. Wu. While it’s common to address resistance by increasing the dosage of the chemotherapy being used or by pairing it with a second chemotherapy, he stresses this usually comes with increased toxicity. “It’s preferable that you target a pathway that’s different from those targeted by existing therapeutics, and this approach does just that.” NIH and VA Support Funding for the work comes from a multimillion-dollar NIH Program Project (P01) grant supporting innovative bladder cancer research in the laboratories of Dr. Wu and colleagues Diane M. Simeone, MD, and Moon-Shong Tang, PhD . Initially awarded in 2013, the grant is in its second funding cycle. “The key focus of this grant is to look at how the different bladder cancer subtypes arise and progress to inform biomarkers and therapeutics,” says Dr. Wu. Dr. Wu’s research has also been funded by the VA Health Services Research and Development Service. “In 2023, it’s estimated that 82,000 new cases of bladder cancer will be diagnosed,” he adds. “It’s a lifelong disease, it’s highly recurrent, and it’s extremely under-studied. While we have immunotherapy, only about 25 percent of patients respond. For the remaining 75 percent of patients with muscle-invasive disease that doesn’t respond, we need to treat them differently.” Urology, Cancer Xue-Ru Wu, MD, is the Bruce and Cynthia Sherman Professor of Urological Research and Innovation and a professor of pathology. His research focuses on the molecular pathogenesis of bladder disease. Breakthrough Platform Unifies Targeted & Immune Therapies Perlmutter Cancer Center director and co-creator of the HapImmune platform discusses the technology’s potential. A Personalized mRNA Vaccine Reduces Melanoma Recurrence Risk In a phase 2 trial, pairing an mRNA vaccine with pembrolizumab improved relapse-free survival in advanced melanoma. A Mid-Treatment Pivot to Trimodal Therapy Patient’s decision to forego radical cystectomy exemplifies opportunity to expand TMT as a treatment option. AI Improves Breast Cancer Detection Blood-Based Test Predicts Cancer Recurrence & Toxicity from Adjuvant Immunotherapy Research test developed at Perlmutter Cancer Center pinpoints changes in a newly identified autoantibody panel. Building International Bridges in Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Research Dr. Andrew S. Feigin and NYU Langone colleague Dr. Un Jung Kang. PHOTO: NYU Langone Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone Health houses a wide-ranging suite of clinical, educational, and research programs aimed at caring for people with Parkinson’s disease (PD) and other movement disorders. Additionally, the institute maintains a unique scientific and clinical collaboration with the Fresco Parkinson Institute in Italy and other centers in the Fresco Parkinson’s Network in Europe.From June 7-10, 2022, the Fresco Parkinson Institute hosted the Fresco International Workshop on Synaptic Plasticity and Advances in Parkinson’s Disease in Florence, Italy. In advance of the workshop, Physician Focus met with Andrew S. Feigin, MD , executive director of the Fresco Institute at NYU Langone, to discuss the institute’s work, key issues in PD and movement disorders research and treatment, and the value of international collaboration From June 7-10, 2022, the Fresco Parkinson Institute hosted the Fresco International Workshop on Synaptic Plasticity and Advances in Parkinson’s Disease in Florence, Italy. In advance of the workshop, Physician Focus met with As executive director of the Fresco Institute at NYU Langone, could you elaborate on your role, the work of the institute here and its connections to the Fresco Parkinson Institute in Florence? Dr. Feigin : I like to describe the work we do in the Fresco Institute as addressing three important areas of endeavor. The first is that we seek to provide the best multidisciplinary clinical care for patients with Parkinson’s disease and related movement disorders. We also focus on research to improve the care that we can deliver in the future. Ultimately, the goal of our research, in both clinical and basic science, is to find better therapies that can help people with these disorders. The third area we focus on is education and training. We’re involved in training medical students, residents, and fellows, so we’re preparing future leaders for providing the best care and doing research for the coming generations. The centers in Italy and Europe provide the same, and our training is enhanced by our interactions with these centers. Key Issues in Movement Disorders What current issues in PD and movement disorders research and treatment is the institute focused on addressing? : One critical area is the genetic contribution to the causes of Parkinson’s disease and other movement disorders. We work on identifying novel genetic contributors to these diseases and how we might utilize these genetic markers to better understand their etiology and get clues to better treatments for those carrying these mutations. Many of us here at NYU Langone and at the other centers are working on identifying better ways of diagnosing Parkinson’s disease and following its progression through imaging and other kinds of biomarkers. There’s also a big movement to predict who is at risk for Parkinson’s, so that if there are disease-modifying therapies in the future we can potentially get these therapies even earlier to those who need them. Benefits of International Collaboration Why is the type of international collaboration fostered through the Fresco Institute essential to advancing research and clinical care for these diseases? r. Feigin : The world has become a smaller place in the last 10 to 20 years, to a large degree because of technology. We want to be able to tap the best minds and the best work that’s being done everywhere. NYU Langone has an amazingly deep tradition and well of expertise that’s relevant to neurodegenerative diseases. However, my work with the institute has expanded my horizons and permitted me to interact with people that I might not otherwise have interacted with—those with different perspectives and different areas of research in Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders. Technology is driving more international collaboration, especially in the response to COVID-19. However, there are still many factors that might complicate partnering across borders. Where do you see the horizons for this type of work going forward? : I’m currently the principal investigator of a large multicenter international clinical trial called PROOF-HD . That trial has 30 sites in Europe and 30 in North America, with different regulatory agencies in basically every country in Europe as well as the FDA in the United States. So yes, there are certainly challenges to doing this type of major international study. However, these challenges can be overcome, and there’s a lot of interest in overcoming them, especially for diseases that are relatively rare where we need to work with international colleagues to conduct large trials. I believe that these types of international collaborations will continue to expand. “These challenges can be overcome, and there’s a lot of interest in overcoming them, especially for diseases that are relatively rare where we need to work with international colleagues to conduct large trials.” The Role of Plasticity in PD Looking ahead to the Fresco International conference in June, the concept of synaptic plasticity and its relationship to PD is a central theme. Why is this concept and the research surrounding it so essential? : Over the past decades, we have begun to gain better understanding of how the adult human brain is able to adjust and modify itself to improve function. Through making new connections and paring back unused connections the brain can remodel functional connections to deal with insults like disease. There’s been an explosion of therapies that seek to promote this kind of plasticity to improve function in people with Parkinson’s disease—for example, exercise programs and art programs Because there’s neuroscientific evidence for why these therapies can be helpful to people, plasticity seems to be a key area of potential therapeutic benefit for patients with Parkinson’s disease and other movement disorders. I think it’s very relevant to have a symposium on this topic to talk about how the brain adjusts to challenges and makes changes, and how we can promote that to benefit our patients. Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Andrew S. Feigin, MD, is the executive director of the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders and the associate chair for clinical research in the Department of Neurology. He specializes in treating patients with Parkinson’s disease, Huntington’s disease, and related disorders that affect the basal ganglia. Unlocking Success in Blood & Marrow Transplantation Samer Al-Homsi, MD, MBA , specializes in caring for adults and children undergoing autologous and allogeneic transplant. The program incorporates a wide-ranging suite of clinical, educational, and research programs aimed at providing high-quality care to every patient, regardless of ethnic background or age. met with the program’s executive director, , to discuss recent advances in the field, as well as ongoing initiatives within the program to make blood and marrow transplant available to even more patients. Benefits of Outpatient Transplants We now have the ability to perform transplants on an outpatient basis, with clinical outcomes equivalent to traditional inpatient approaches. What makes outpatient transplants unique? Dr. Al-Homsi: Outpatient transplant is often the most practical, if not the best option, for the majority of eligible patients. It provides patients with more flexibility, allowing them to return to the comfort of their home after receiving treatment during the day. “Outpatient transplant is often the most practical, if not the best option, for the majority of eligible patients.” We are fortunate to have a state-of-the-art outpatient center staffed by highly specialized professionals including physicians, nurse practitioners, and social workers. All transplant services, including the collection of stem cells, infusion, and the stem cell processing laboratory are housed within the outpatient center. We have come a long way since the days when patients were admitted to an isolated inpatient unit to receive their transplant. Nevertheless, each patient needs to be extensively evaluated and may not be a good candidate for outpatient care, depending on the circumstances. Age Is No Barrier to Success There has been great progress in expanding access to bone marrow transplants to older adults. What collective advancements have supported this shift? In recent years, transplant has been increasingly used for patients older than 60. There are several reasons for this, including optimized means of determining which older adults will benefit from treatment, the availability of reduced-intensity conditioning regimens, and better supportive care. Taken together, these innovations have expanded the pool of eligible patients well into their 70s. In other words, advanced age does not automatically exclude a patient from receiving a bone marrow transplant, autologous or allogeneic, even in the outpatient setting. A successful transplant for an older adult means preserving their functional independence, improving quality of life, and of course, prolonging survival. Haploidentical Grafts: The Next Frontier Haploidentical transplants have expanded the pool of available donors. What are the benefits of this approach? Many patients who need a transplant cannot find a suitable fully matched donor. The development of half-matched or haploidentical transplant has been a major step forward in extending transplant as an option for patients from certain ethnic and minority groups, who are underrepresented in the donor registries and may not be able to find a fully matched donor. “In our hands, it seems that the outcomes of transplanted patients with a half-matched donor are at least as good as those with a fully matched donor.” Although haploidentical transplant may be the only option for patients from certain ethnic minorities, recent studies have suggested that the incidence of graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) can be higher in patients who received a haploidentical transplant versus fully matched donors. As this is a disparity issue, we have been very active in conducting research to decrease the incidence of GvHD in the setting of haploidentical transplant. , we reported encouraging results using an innovative approach to prevent GvHD in patients undergoing a haploidentical transplant. In our hands, it seems that the outcomes of transplanted patients with a half-matched donor are at least as good as those with a fully matched donor. A Vision for Continued Success Looking ahead, what is your vision for the future of the program? What advancements are on the horizon? Let me start by pointing to the remarkable progress that has been achieved in the past five years. As a comprehensive program accredited by the Foundation for the Accreditation of Cellular Therapy , we now perform a large number of transplants both in the outpatient and inpatient setting, and we maintain outstanding outcomes, which is a testament to our commitment to providing high-quality patient care. “As researchers, we continue to push forward with novel interventions, determined to make GvHD a complication of the past.” As researchers, we continue to push forward with novel interventions, determined to make GvHD a complication of the past. We will also continue to expand our transplant services for patients affected by non-cancer illnesses, such as rheumatologic conditions. Lastly, we hope to improve access to transplant for racial and ethnic minorities, which underpins our motivation to continue to develop novel haploidentical transplant approaches. Additionally, in New York State, it can be challenging for patients to come to Manhattan to receive treatment, and thus we plan to continue expanding our services to Long Island. Our mantra is: “We’re going to the patients, rather than them having to come to us.” Samer Al-Homsi, MD, MBA, is a clinical professor of medicine and executive director of the Blood and Marrow Transplant Program. His research interests include the development of more effective prevention regimens for graft-versus-host disease following allogeneic transplant. Lupus, Catastrophic Antiphospholipid Syndrome, and Complement-Mediated HUS Resolving a Complex Cascade of Symptoms A 35-year-old female was admitted via the ED at NYU Langone Health’s Tisch Hospital with one week of fever, nausea, intense abdominal pain, and diffuse bone pain. She had a history of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), secondary antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) with a triple-positive aPL antibody profile, HELLP syndrome, and chronic thrombocytopenia. Given the patient’s medical history, lab and imaging results, fever, and intense pain, , co-director of the Lupus Center, concluded that her presentation reflected a flare of atypical catastrophic APS (CAPS) with widespread thrombosis-related ischemia with involvement in her bone, bone marrow, and hepatobiliary tract. “This patient was highly complex, with her lupus and secondary antiphspholipid syndrome unmasking an underlying genetic defect that also gave her complement-mediated HUS.” Worsening symptoms, including acute bilateral blurry vision and a nonoliguric acute kidney injury with nephrotic range proteinuria, led Dr. Belmont and colleagues to order atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) genetic testing. The test revealed variants in both the CFB MCP CD46 ) genes for complement regulatory proteins. “This patient was highly complex, with her lupus and secondary antiphospholipid syndrome unmasking an underlying genetic defect that also gave her complement-mediated HUS,” he says. Effectively managing and eventually resolving the case relied on unveiling and treating the atypical HUS and consulting with specialists in multiple departments to address the refractory CAPS complicated by bone, bone marrow, liver, biliary, choroid/retina, kidney, and jejunum involvement. One month after her hospital admission, the patient was well enough to be discharged. “Close and frequent consultations allowed our interdisciplinary care team to quickly respond to an evolving and cascading suite of symptoms,” says Dr. Belmont. A Highly Complicated Presentation The patient’s test results revealed a highly complicated presentation and included anemia, thrombocytopenia, mild peripheral schistocytes, and elevated liver enzymes. A CT scan showed increased focal intrahepatic biliary ductal dilation; magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) showed new focal biliary dilation and hypodense hepatic lesions; and MRI showed biliary stricture, likely portal vein thrombosis. The ADAMTS13 result was normal. The initial diagnosis was flare of atypical catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome (CAPS) with widespread thrombosis-related ischemia. Managing a Cascading Crisis To manage a cascading crisis, treatment included heparin, plasma exchange, steroids, cyclophosphamide and rituximab, and supportive care. However, complications included atraumatic Purtscher’s retinopathy, diffuse microvascular injury involving chorioretina and glomerular microvasculature, complement-mediated hemolytic uremic syndrome, acute hematemesis and hematochezia with severe acute blood loss anemia, and thrombotic microangiographic hemolytic anemia. Interdisciplinary Treatment Interdisciplinary treatment was required and included eculizumab to prevent generation of C5a and C5b-9 complement components, nicardipine IV for accelerated hypertension, and anticoagulation, plasma exchange, and steroid therapy. For the resolution, the patient’s visual loss was restored; nausea, bleeding, and elevated liver tests were resolved; significant bicytopenia with anemia and thrombocytopenia and narcotic-requiring diffuse bone pain were resolved; and the acute kidney injury improved. H. Michael Belmont, MD, is a professor of medicine and associate director of clinical affairs in the Division of Rheumatology. He is medical director of NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, where he also serves as director of infusion services, and co-director of the Lupus Center. A Unique Case of Aortitis Complicated by Scleromyxedema and COVID-19 A 52-year-old female presented to the emergency department at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn complaining of acute-onset middle back pain that had started three days prior. She described the pain as sharp and radiating to her neck, rated the intensity as 8 on a scale of 1 to 10, and stated that it worsened with deep inspiration or other movements. Three weeks before her visit, the patient had experienced sinus pain, a cough, and a low-grade fever. She tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and self-quarantined. Her medical history included a diagnosis of scleromyxedema (SM). The condition causes papular and sclerodermoid eruption in the setting of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. The patient had also been diagnosed with Hashimoto’s disease and asthma, and had been receiving intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) for the past seven years. In the ED, however, she did not present with associated symptoms such as fever, chills, shortness of breath, chest pain, abdominal pain, or headache. “We have learned that SARS-CoV-2 triggers a severe inflammatory response that leads to a cytokine storm and endotheliitis, resulting in arterial and venous thrombosis,” says Yamen Homsi, MD, MPH , who led the rheumatology team involved in the patient’s care. “My initial thought was that our patient could have had an acute pulmonary embolism. However, she lacked the hallmark presenting complaint of chest pain.” Arriving at an Aortitis Diagnosis The patient was alert and oriented, and her vitals were normal with the exception of an elevated 154/94 blood pressure reading and heart rate of 90. Her heart, lung, abdomen, and extremities exams were all normal, with no rash, skin tightness, or lymphadenopathy. An initial electrocardiogram and chest X-ray were both unremarkable. Likewise, the patient had a normal complete blood count and C-reactive protein levels, but an abnormally high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 120 mm per hour, indicating inflammation. The ED team performed a chest CT with IV contrast, which was negative for pulmonary embolism but showed distal aortic stranding, a concerning sign of aortitis. Subsequently, the patient underwent an abdominal CT with contrast that revealed wall thickening and perivascular stranding of the distal thoracic aorta extending inferiorly to the level of the origin of celiac axis, a finding consistent with segmental aortitis. Multiple non-infectious and infectious etiologies for aortitis have been described and Dr. Homsi’s team ruled out many of them through extensive lab tests. The patient’s antinuclear antibody test titer of 1:160 showed a homogeneous pattern, however. She tested positive for SS-A/Ro antibodies and borderline positive for anti-RNP and anti-CCP antibodies, but negative for rheumatoid factor, anti-dsDNA, anti-Smith, and anti-SSB antibodies. Treatment Resolves Painful Condition After the patient was placed on high-dose (500 mg per day) intravenous methylprednisolone for 3 days, she was switched to oral prednisone (60 mg per day) and her back pain resolved during the hospitalization. Methotrexate was added to her treatment regimen and she was successfully tapered off prednisone. A repeat abdomen/chest CT three months later showed that her aortitis had completely resolved; her ESR had also normalized. The patient continues to receive methotrexate, as well as IVIG for her SM, without any signs of relapse. Beyond established etiologies of aortitis, doctors have reported large vessel vasculitis after infection with SARS-CoV-2, while others have linked systemic vascular dysfunction and endothelial cell injury in the setting of an aberrant cytokine response to the viral infection.. In fact, clinicians have described multiple vasculitic phenomena such as cutaneous vasculitis, Kawasaki-like disease spectrum, and pauci-immune thrombogenic vasculopathy in association with COVID-19. As probable explanations, they have proposed factors such as direct viral endotheliitis, complement-mediated vascular injury, and autoimmunity. Because the patient developed aortitis very shortly after her SARS-CoV-2 infection, Dr. Homsi says he believes a hyperinflammatory state triggered by SARS-CoV-2 was likely behind her acute condition. Large vessel vasculitis, like aortitis after SARS-CoV-2 infection, carries a difficult diagnosis and treatment plan “Large vessel vasculitis, like aortitis after SARS-CoV-2 infection, carries a difficult diagnosis and treatment plan,” Dr. Homsi says. “Fortunately, an immunosuppressant therapy including intravenous methylprednisolone has shown to be effective in treating the hyperinflammatory state in such patients.” Yamen Homsi, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine in the Division of Rheumatology and section chief of Rheumatology at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn. National Research Push Targets Progression to Psoriatic Arthritis Lupus Patients With COVID-19 Produce and Maintain Antibody Response after Infection Study results show that 16 percent of 329 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) had a reactive SARS-CoV-2 antibody test, compared with approximately 20 percent seroprevalence in New York City. Seropositive patients were more likely to be Hispanic, and no association with immunosuppressant medications, hydroxychloroquine, or steroid use was found. ADAPTED FROM: Lancet Rheumatol. 2021;3(8):e585–594. Among patients with SLE and COVID-19, 83 percent developed an antibody response to SARS-CoV-2; 62 percent were on immunosuppressants, 88 percent retained an antibody response for up to 10 weeks, and 70 percent retained an antibody response for up to 40 weeks. ADAPTED FROM: 2021;3(8):e585–e594. The immune dysregulation in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and frequent treatment with immunosuppressants have prompted concerns that these patients could be at greater risk for COVID-19. A large study in led by assistant professor of rheumatology , however, found that neither lupus-specific factors nor immunosuppressant use increased the risk of infection with SARS-CoV-2. Among patients in a multiracial and multiethnic cohort who tested positive, most produced a significant and durable SARS-CoV-2 IgG response. “Probably the biggest take-home point of this study is that the immune response is functional and enough to react to SARS-CoV-2 for the vast majority of our lupus patients, despite the use of immunosuppressants.” “Probably the biggest take-home point of this study is that the immune response is functional and enough to react to SARS-CoV-2 for the vast majority of our lupus patients, despite the use of immunosuppressants,” Dr. Saxena says. Stopping Congenital Heart Block in Its Tracks Congenital heart block (CHB) is a key consideration when managing rheumatologic patients during pregnancy. The disorder complicates 2 percent of anti-Ro/SSA antibody-positive pregnancies and carries substantial perinatal morbidity and mortality. Almost all of the survivors require lifelong cardiac pacing. Data suggests ant-inflammatory treatment of primary and secondary (emerging) CHB can prevent progression to complete block, yet the optimal surveillance strategy to detect emergent conduction disease is unknown. To investigate an at-home method in which pregnant women listen for rhythm abnormalities, , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, is collaborating with Bettina Cuneo, MD, a professor of pediatrics and obstetrics at the University of Colorado. Their Surveillance and Treatment to Prevent Fetal Atrioventricular Block Likely to Occur Quickly (STOP BLOQ) trial, supported by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, launched in 2020. “As with other diseases, it is likely that timing is everything.” The multicenter trial is assessing whether anti-Ro/SSA-positive mothers can utilize doppler-based fetal heart rate monitoring (FHRM) at home to identify second degree block, and whether rapid treatment with dexamethasone and intravenous immunoglobulin can reverse the conduction defect. “As with other diseases, it is likely that timing is everything,” Dr. Buyon says. At-Home Monitoring Enables Early Warnings To date, the team has enrolled 158 patients. The trial is first stratifying anti-Ro/SSA-positive mothers, based on research conducted by Robert Clancy, PhD , professor of medicine, that evaluates the levels of anti-Ro60 and anti-Ro52 antibodies. Mothers with high titers—defined as being above or equal to the lowest titer obtained for 50 mothers with previous offspring with CHB—are instructed by video and personal interviews to perform FHRM. From 17 to 25 weeks of gestation, the mothers conduct FHRM three times per day in addition to undergoing weekly or biweekly fetal echocardiograms. Mothers text the audio sounds to a central data site. For those FHRM results that the mothers deem abnormal, their texts are immediately sent to an on-call cardiologist for evaluation. If the results are considered abnormal, the mothers are referred for an emergency fetal echocardiogram within six hours. Enrolled mothers have had good overall compliance with at-home FHRM so far, and early experiences have helped refine the trial methods, says Dr. Buyon. After one mother reported difficulty using the monitor, concern over the potential for an abnormality prompted an early echocardiogram that showed tertiary block that was refractory to treatment. The results prompted additional teaching to help enrolled mothers improve their ability to conduct the at-home surveillance. Successful Reversal After Early Detection Another mother reported an abnormality based on her own monitoring that prompted an urgent echocardiogram confirming second degree block. Treatment was initiated within several hours and six days later the fetal heart rate had increased from 70 to 150 beats per minute, with most periods showing a normal sinus rhythm. “That reversal after the abnormality was detected and treated in less than 12 hours is a remarkable milestone. It supports the importance of what this study is trying to accomplish,” Dr. Buyon says. “Even at this early stage we are already learning a great deal about the impact of home monitoring and the empowerment of mothers to participate in their own care.” Although the initial results are encouraging, Dr. Buyon cautions that the study is still in its early stages, with a goal of enrolling 1,300 patients over the next four years. “Even at this early stage we are already learning a great deal about the impact of home monitoring and the empowerment of mothers to participate in their own care,” Dr. Buyon says. New Disease Discovery Drives Genetic Consult Services A new program embedded within the rheumatology service provides genetic evaluations of patients with atypical autoinflammatory disease manifestations. The program builds on pioneering research findings that point to common genetic underpinnings across certain rheumatic conditions. “When we can provide a molecular diagnosis that may reclassify patients, it’s going to be even more beneficial for figuring out exactly how to treat them.” “Clinical diagnoses are helpful, but when we can provide a molecular diagnosis that may reclassify patients, it’s going to be even more beneficial for figuring out exactly how to treat them,” says , an assistant professor in the Dr. Beck joined the faculty in 2021 and launched the Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program a few months later. While Dr. Beck is leading the genetic evaluations, genetic counselor Anna Cantor, MA, MS, works with patients and their families to understand the testing procedure, its implications for their care, and the potential genetic risk to other relatives. The program is accepting referrals of patients whose inflammatory conditions have not responded well to treatment, or for those with unusual clinical presentations. New Options for Vexing VEXAS As a complement to his clinical work, Dr. Beck’s research uses cellular and animal models to explore the genetic and molecular underpinnings of rheumatic diseases with unexplained inflammation. Among adult patients, for example, recent research has underscored the importance of somatic mutations in driving age-related diseases. In a groundbreaking 2020 , Dr. Beck and colleagues reported that somatic mutations in the UBA1 gene on chromosome X cause VEXAS (vacuoles, E1 enzyme, X-linked, autoinflammatory, somatic) syndrome, seen almost exclusively in male patients. In 2021, the American Society of Hematology named the research group’s new disease discovery “ This Year’s Best in Hematology Diagnosis Many of the patients in the study were previously given different rheumatic and hematologic diagnoses, such as relapsing polychondritis or myelodysplastic syndrome, but carried the same genetic mutation. “It shows that these seemingly different diseases have the same underlying etiology,” Dr. Beck says. “Secondly, it helps us understand that in some cases, the clinical diagnosis isn’t anywhere near as helpful as the genetic diagnosis.” Leveraging the information from the genetic evaluation has guided clinicians toward more effective VEXAS syndrome therapies such as bone marrow transplants, Dr. Beck explains. Expanding Genetics-Driven Insights Dr. Beck envisions that genetic evaluations will open up new diagnostic and therapeutic options for many atypical conditions. “You can take patients out of these undiagnosed categories and give them a very highly specific diagnosis, which can have big prognostic and treatment implications,” he says. The Center for Human Genetics & Genomics has placed a growing emphasis on integrating genetics-driven personalized medicine into medical specialties. Given NYU Langone Health’s robust clinical practice in rheumatology, Dr. Beck says, it made sense to merge that strength with the medical center’s unique genetics infrastructure. “This is pairing the best of both worlds,” he says. Nongenetic Enzyme Impairment May Facilitate Lupus Nephritis Pathogenesis Upon examining DNASE1L3 activity in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), researchers found the vast majority of patients with SLE had no mutation in the DNASE1L3 gene, and more than 50 percent of patients with sporadic SLE and kidney involvement had reduced DNASE1L3 activity. ADAPTED FROM: JEM . 2021;218(5): e20201138 Researchers also found autoantibodies targeting DNASE1L3 increase: Patients with sporadic SLE also have more neutralizing autoantibodies targeting DNASE1L3, suggesting a physical—not genetic—activation. ADAPTED FROM: Rare inherited null mutations in the DNASE1L3 gene cause childhood lupus characterized by high titers of anti-double-stranded DNA (anti-dsDNA) antibodies and renal involvement. In a Journal of Experimental Medicine , researchers led by Boris Reizis, PhD , examined DNASE1L3 enzyme activity in a cohort of patients with severe sporadic systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Their research identified a surprisingly common nongenetic disease mechanism, in which autoantibodies harbored by the patients react with the DNASE1L3 enzyme. “Because we found that the nongenetic deficiency of this enzyme was not uncommon, we could study many of these patients and some of the mechanistic details actually became more apparent.” “Because we found that the nongenetic deficiency of this enzyme was not uncommon, we could study many of these patients and some of the mechanistic details actually became more apparent,” Dr. Reizis says. The DNASE1L3 enzyme helps break down microparticle-associated extracellular DNA. A reduction in its activity leads to an increase in extracellular DNA, which can prompt the immune system to increase the level of dsDNA antibodies and potentially result in SLE with nephritis. “Rare genetic mutations can put a spotlight on the protein target, and by knowing the underlying problem one may be able to apply it to a much larger population of patients,” Dr. Buyon adds. Boris Reizis, PhD, is the Samuel A. Brown Professor of Medicine and a professor of pathology. He is also co-director of the Judith and Stewart Colton Center for Autoimmunity and director of the Translational Immunology Center. His research focuses on stem cells in normal hematopoiesis and leukemia; dendritic cell development and function; and mechanisms of autoimmunity. Hearing & Balance Center Vestibular Testing and other balance disorders are diagnosed by an otolaryngologist—an ear, nose, and throat doctor—or a neurologist. These specialists may use a physical exam, medical history, and results from assessments conducted at the Hearing and Balance Center to help determine the cause of a balance problem in adults and children. Treatment for children is provided through the pediatric vestibular and balance disorder services Our audiologists offer a variety of balance tests, including the following: an auditory brainstem response (ABR) test to assess how well sound travels from the inner ear to the brainstem and upper auditory area electrocochleography, to determine whether excess pressure in the inner ear is caused by fluid buildup rotary chair testing, to assess eye movements originating in the vestibular system in response to a chair turning back and forth vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials testing, to measure the natural response of your neck muscles, eye muscles, and vestibular system to certain sounds videonystagmography, visual and sensory tests to evaluate your inner ear function Please consult your physician one week before your rotary chair or videonystagmography test regarding food, medication, and alcohol restrictions. On the day of your test, please arrive in flat shoes and comfortable clothing, and do not wear any makeup or cream. Wear your contact lenses if you use them, but bring your case, solution, and glasses, as you may need to remove your contacts. that our doctors conduct helps advance knowledge of the many conditions that affect the ear. We work to enhance our patients’ care through innovative methods of identifying causes for vertigo and loss of balance. offer evidence-based clinical services to help individuals and organizations prevent and manage injury and disability, as well as early symptoms of musculoskeletal disorders. Our clinical services include evaluation and treatment in the following areas: orthopedic medicine ergonomics . We also have a work conditioning program that addresses the many obstacles an individual who has been injured faces before resuming their everyday activities. Our patient-centered approach uses education and goal-oriented care to create a partnership between our providers and patients, and all patients are encouraged to become active participants in their care. Building a Level 1 Children’s Surgical Program at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital has been named a Level 1 Children’s Surgery Center by the American College of Surgeons (ACS)—the highest designation a hospital can receive—for providing high-quality children’s surgical care. It is one of only two pediatric hospitals in New York State to achieve this prestigious verification, and among five in the Northeast. recently spoke with , director of children’s surgical services at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, about the collaboration, innovation, and excellence that go into building a world-class children’s surgical program. A Whole-Hospital Effort Dr. Fisher, congratulations on this designation. Besides meeting the rigorous qualifications for a Level 1 center, what is the secret to building a strong children’s surgical program? Dr. Fisher: Thank you, we are thrilled. It has been a whole-hospital effort. A surgical program is so much more than a well-trained surgeon. It’s the anesthesiologists, nurses, scrub team, radiologists, pathologists, social workers—the list is a mile long. But it’s also people who don’t often get recognized: the building staff; the people who turn over the rooms, who ensure all our instruments are there. It’s the patient technicians, who spend more time with the patients before and after surgery than anybody else. “NYU Langone is a very collaborative environment, and in Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, we’ve taken all those systems and personal relationships and shrunk them into a tighter package. This allows us to iterate our innovation, our quality, and our safety in much faster cycles.” There’s an incredible inherent trust we take on when doing this job. We take that trust very seriously, and we couldn’t confidently say things are going to go perfectly if we didn’t trust each other, as well. NYU Langone is a very collaborative environment, and in Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, we’ve taken all those systems and personal relationships and shrunk them into a tighter package. This allows us to iterate our innovation, our quality, and our safety in much faster cycles. Advocates for Patients and Families How does this collaborative, nimble environment translate to creating a culture of family-centered care? One of the big drivers that helps us deliver on that promise is . With Sala Institute, we have support from a full-time staff and innumerable support services for children. Early on, the institute focused its efforts on improving quality, safety, and family-centered care for the children in the hospital, but so many of their efforts never touched the operating room. Now, with any new initiative Sala Institute is supporting, if it even remotely involves children that will be going down a surgical pathway, our program is involved. We can push things out to all the pediatric surgeons in a block, get information back from them, and push this out to the children’s hospital and to families. This allows us to speak in a much more unified voice. For example, we listened to families and learned we weren’t communicating with them in the ways they wanted while their children were undergoing surgery. Partnering with Sala Family and Youth Advisory Councils, we’ve designed pathways to communicate more effectively with families before, during, and after surgery—and improve communication among our clinical staff. Collaboration Combined with Innovation Are there stand-out initiatives in children’s surgical services you’d like to highlight? One thing we’re proud of is that we’re able to solve complex problems in very unique ways. For instance, three out of four babies don’t survive congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS). In a recent case, we assembled a team that included maternal–fetal medicine, pediatric surgery, pediatric otolaryngology, pediatric anesthesiology, and pediatric ECMO to perform a lifesaving procedure in a partially delivered fetus. “As a progressive, forward-thinking children’s surgical program, we’re trying to impact lifetimes—decades and decades ahead. We’re putting all our chips down early in the game so these kids can go on and live healthy lives.” We also have a great collaboration between our pediatric surgeons and our adult surgical colleagues. Dr. Robert J. Cerfolio , a world-renowned thoracic surgeon, performed a on a young girl’s trachea to remove a mass—a minimally invasive approach that saved her from being in the hospital for months. In our pediatric spine program, Dr. Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri is employing spinal tethering as a way to treat scoliosis, using a series of ropes and tethers along the spine. People fly in from all over the world for this expertise. Dr. Jun Tashiro in our Adolescent Healthy Weight Program offers that puts teens on a whole new trajectory for their lives. Our pediatric cardiac surgery outcomes are some of the best in the nation, and our pediatric cardiac ICU is fantastic. While most children’s hospitals use adult interventional radiologists, NYU has a pediatric interventional radiologist, Dr. Frederic J. Bertino , who can address a host of issues for which patients would have to go elsewhere or receive more invasive procedures. Impacting Healthcare Today and Tomorrow In closing, in what ways do the families you serve here in New York inspire you? I feel blessed to practice in a city that constantly inspires us to practice in culturally sensitive ways. We’ve made sure that this spirit of achieving equity in our care models is a central pillar of our children’s surgical program, carrying through from the small projects to the big ones. Children’s surgical care requires resiliency—in your surgeons, in your processes, and especially in your families; things don’t always go as planned. I feel that we very much benefit from the fact that New Yorkers are strong and resilient. As a progressive, forward-thinking children’s surgical program, we’re trying to impact lifetimes—decades and decades ahead. We’re putting all our chips down early in the game so these kids can go on and live healthy lives and not becomes patients with chronic conditions who must rely on resources and continuous access to the healthcare system. , surgeons Flavio Malcher, MD David K. Halpern, MD Xavier Pereira, MD , specialize in complex hernia repair and abdominal wall reconstruction. A hernia is considered complex if it is larger than 8 centimeters, or slightly more than 3 inches; has recurred after surgery; or results in a large portion of the abdominal contents bulging through the hernia, a condition called loss of abdominal domain. Without proper repair and abdominal wall reconstruction, complex hernias can develop complications or recur. Our surgeons have advanced training and are among the most experienced in the repair of complex hernias and abdominal wall reconstruction. They use the most sophisticated robotic surgical techniques, reducing the likelihood of recurrence. Presenters at the 2022 AHA Scientific Sessions This November, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Heart Association’s 2022 Scientific Sessions in Chicago Below are notable sessions this year featuring our faculty and trainees (see a full listing of ). One presentation of special interest was the late-breaking abstract, ISCHEMIA-EXTENDed Follow-Up Interim Report , which outlined interim results from the groundbreaking ISCHEMIA trial Saturday, November 5 Biomarkers of Adverse Cardiovascular Events in Chronic Coronary Disease: Data from the ISCHEMIA Trial Session: Novel Biomarker Utilization in Stable and Unstable CAD , Eugene Braunwald, MD Assistant Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone Rebecca Anthopolos, DrPH , Assistant Professor, Department of Population Health; , Associate Professor, Departments of Medicine and Surgery; Macintosh Cornwell; , Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine; Location: Abstract Oral Session #S103D Time: 3:24–3:34 p.m. A Circulating Genetic Signature in Psoriasis Associates with Future Cardiovascular Events Session: Prevention in Special Populations Authors: , Assistant Professor, Departments of Medicine and Pathology; , Associate Professor, Departments of Medicine and Surgery; Macintosh Cornwell; Kamelia Drenkova; Caron Rockman, MD , Florence and Joseph Ritorto Professor of Surgical Research, Department of Surgery; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Maria Florencia Schlamp, NYU Langone Location: Abstract Poster Session—Board #3135 Time: 3–4 p.m. Development and Pilot Implementation of Two Targeted Approaches to Ambulatory Clinical Decision Support for Cardiologists to Optimize Medical Therapy for Heart Failure Session: Thinking Outside the Box: Novel Methods of Delivery of Care , Clinical Instructor, Department of Medicine NYU Langone Authors: Rod Aminian; Saul Blecker, MD , Professor, Department of Population Health; Ruth-Ann Diah; , Professor, Department of Population Health; , Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Professor of Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics, Department of Medicine; Arielle Nagler, MD , Associate Professor, Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology; Archana Saxena, MD , Clinical Instructor, Department of Medicine; Adam Szerencsy, DO , Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Yuhe Xia, NYU Langone Location: Abstract Poster Session—Board #2205 INOCA and MINOCA: Clinical Syndromes, Imaging and Risk Session: Not Your Father’s Heart Disease: Microvascular Coronary Function and Its Contribution to Disease Author: Location: Main Event Hall II Time: 3:20–3:30 p.m. Whole Blood Multi-Omic Characterization of the ISCHEMIA Cohort Reveals Vulnerable and Resilient Subtypes of Chronic Coronary Disease Session: Emerging Clinical Applications of Genomics and Genetics , Associate Professor, Departments of Medicine and Surgery; Ze Chen; Macintosh Cornwell; , Eugene Braunwald, MD Assistant Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine; Location: Abstract Poster Session—Board #1097 Time: 11 a.m.–12 p.m. Sunday, November 6 Does the Choice of Blood Pressure Agent Matter? Session: Pregnancy Compilations and Cardiovascular Outcomes Dan Halpern, MD Location: Cardiovascular Seminar N140 Time: 8:24–8:32 a.m. Session: Late-Breaking Science: Drugs and Strategies in ACS and Revascularization , Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone , Professor, Department of Medicine; Michelle Chang; Aira Contreras; , Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine; Stephanie Mavromichalis; Yifan Xu, MPH , Assistant Research Scientist, Department of Population Health, NYU Langone Time: 5:39–5:49 p.m. Monday, November 7 Approach to Diagnostic Evaluation and Treatment of MINOCA Session: Ischemic Heart Disease and ACS in Women Location: Cardiovascular Seminar A101A Time: 9:54–10:06 a.m. Prevalence and Predictors of Normotensive Shock in Intermediate-Risk Pulmonary Embolism Session: Vascular Medicine Medley Location: Moderated Poster Session Science and Technology Hall Level 3 Time: 1:40–1:45 p.m. A Safe New Anesthesia Option for High-Risk Hip Fracture Patients Compared to general or spinal anesthesia, MAC-STILA anesthesia is better at maintaining a normal interoperative heart rate, yields lower pain scores, and requires a lower dose of narcotics. SOURCE: J Orthop Trauma. 2021 Oct 1;35(10):542-549. MAC-STILA is a safe and effective alternative to general or spinal anesthesia, and may reduce episodes of delirium. SOURCE: J Orthop Trauma. 2021 Oct 1;35(10):542-549. Hip fracture fixation is associated with a high risk of perioperative morbidity and mortality. Most surgeons perform the fixation under general or spinal anesthesia; although regional anesthesia with monitored anesthesia care (MAC) has become increasingly popular in recent years, no studies had assessed it in combination with soft-tissue infiltration with local anesthesia (STILA). , and colleagues examined the feasibility of using MAC-STILA for patients undergoing hip fracture fixation with short cephalomedullary nails (CMN). For their retrospective study, Journal of Orthopaedic Trauma , they matched 20 consecutive OTA 13.A1-3 IT hip fracture patients treated with a short CMN and MAC-STILA protocol 1:1:1 with other hip fracture patients who had received either general or spinal anesthesia. “The use of this safe and surgeon-controlled technique will have broad implications towards improving hip fracture care.” The researchers found that MAC-STILA was best at maintaining a normal intraoperative heart rate, yielding lower post-surgical pain scores, and minimizing narcotics. The researchers also found no meaningful differences in a range of safety metrics. Given their findings, they concluded that the MAC-STILA protocol is a safe and effective alternative to spinal or general anesthesia for fixing intertrochanteric hip fractures with short CMNs. “The use of this safe and surgeon-controlled technique will have broad implications towards improving hip fracture care. It has the potential to expedite the time to which patients are taken to the OR for surgery, to decrease overall narcotic consumption (which in the elderly can have severe side-effects), and to minimize the risk of intraoperative and postoperative complications,” says Dr. Konda. Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic Trauma Surgery Sanjit R. Konda, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and director of Geriatric Orthopedic Trauma for NYU Langone Health. He is also the chairman of Orthopedics for Medisys Health Network and director of Orthopedic Trauma at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center. He specializes in treating fractures, nonunions, post-traumatic deformity, and osteomyelitis. How to Preserve Quality and Outcomes As Health Systems Grow Well-planned growth and consolidation of health systems can drive greater efficiency and care coordination, but recent studies suggest that health system mergers haven’t always lived up to this ideal. Nearly 25 years ago, NYU Langone Health embarked on a unique path to system growth when , inaugural chair of the combined Department of Orthopedic Surgery after the merger that created , was tasked with integrating two residency programs and two faculties providing care at five institutions. The same strategy later helped NYU Langone Health expand into Brooklyn and Long Island. Joseph A. Bosco III, MD , vice chair of clinical affairs in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, continues to work closely with Thomas R. Lyon, MD , vice chair of orthopedic surgery at James D. Capozzi, MD , chair of orthopedic surgery at . Together, they ensure that ongoing growth of the system’s footprint also expands high-quality patient care. Below, they discuss opportunities and challenges they have navigated as a leadership team. Dr. Bosco, you’ve said that you approached the department’s growth believing there is a critical difference between “acquisition” and “integration.” How do each of you see that difference? Dr. Bosco: Hospital systems are growing by acquiring and merging with other systems, but in order for patients to reap the benefits, the entities must integrate. That’s why we see, nationally, that as hospital systems grow in size, their quality doesn’t necessarily improve. We’re taking a different tack here. We’ve grown deliberately and strategically, and we spend a lot of time ensuring a total integration of our service lines where we’ve chosen to merge. Dr. Capozzi: We recognize that the facilities, personnel, patient populations, and even geography in Manhattan may be very different than in Brooklyn and on Long Island. Trying to impart one way of doing things on all three hospitals would never work. To achieve a successful system integration, we’ve been in constant communication and have all learned from each other’s practices and hospitals, taking our differences into account. Dr. Lyon: It was clear from the beginning that this was going to be much more than just an affiliation, but a full-on integration of quality standards, data, and systems. We established the important goal of providing high-quality care regardless of location, and we have created a metrics-driven system to help us achieve that. “We established the important goal of providing high-quality care regardless of location, and we have created a metrics-driven system to help us achieve that.” Joseph D. Zuckerman, MD, Thomas R. Lyon, MD, Joseph A. Bosco, MD, and James D. Capozzi, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Integrated Records and Metrics In Fall 2021, the Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade once again awarded “A” grades to NYU Langone Health’s hospitals in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. How are you utilizing metrics to improve quality across the system? We have a detailed system of metrics for nationally accepted quality indicators on a shared dashboard, and can show that we are improving on all of these metrics across the system. When you see your efforts come to fruition through better numbers and metrics, it just energizes everyone to work even harder. The EMR system was probably the most important element; if you can’t talk to each other or look at metrics or share patient charts and data, you’re really at a disadvantage. That installation of one system-wide EMR system was done immediately and I think that was key. Our metrics keep improving because we all have numbers to look at and we know where we need to focus. Can you give a specific example of how the shared data has driven quality improvement? In 2020, we looked at our hospital-acquired conditions and found that there was a small uptick in the previous six months across all sites. Among the 10 hospital-acquired conditions that we track, we found that blood clots, or VTEs [venous thromboembolisms], were causing the increase. Why was that? Because of COVID-19. We then formulated a strategy and operationalized new prophylactic DVT [deep vein thrombosis] protocols. As a result, we were able to address the increased DVT risk in near real time and provide our patients with safer, higher quality care. As another example, in 2013 we were one of the first institutions to volunteer for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Bundled Care for Improvement Initiative. In this total joint risk-sharing program, hospitals are financially responsible for all care up to 90 days post discharge, including readmissions. The CMS-provided list of all 90-day readmissions allowed us to formulate improvement strategies that decreased our readmission rates by 70 percent. On the Long Island campus, we have seen significant improvement on our total joint length of stay, our readmission rate, and our complication and mortality rates. Throughout the Brooklyn campus, in-hospital mortality rates have dropped by 33 percent since the merger , with other significant improvements in central line infections, catheter-associated urinary tract infections, and patient recommendations. “Our metrics keep improving because we all have numbers to look at and we know where we need to focus.” A Shared Vision of Collaboration When you think about a successful medical system integration, what other elements are you considering? In Brooklyn, we needed a big influx of nursing to improve our nurse to patient ratios. After the integration, a huge amount of payroll capital helped us increase our nursing ratios to not only meet quality standards, but also exceed them. So we’ve seen major investments in nursing staff, facilities, and information technology. We’ve all derived benefits because we started from the point of a common culture and a vision of collaboration. For instance, Dr. Capozzi runs an outstanding fragility fracture service with unbelievable outcomes and detailed evidence-based care pathways, and we adopted those throughout our system. Dr. Lyon and his colleagues run an incredibly efficient operating room and we learned a lot from integrating some of their practices across NYU Langone Health as well. So it’s certainly been a two-way street, and that’s key for true integration. “We’ve all derived benefits because we started from the point of a common culture and a vision of collaboration.” Joseph A. Bosco III, MD, is a professor and vice chair of clinical affairs in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, and director of quality and patient safety at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital. He specializes in treating and researching knee and shoulder injuries. Thomas R. Lyon, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, as well as vice chair of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and chief of the orthopedic surgery service at NYU Langone Hospital–Brooklyn. He specializes in treating fractures. James D. Capozzi, MD, is a professor and chair of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island. He specializes in treating hip and knee arthritis and in performing hip and knee replacement surgery. Telemedicine Proves Value to Outpatient Surgery Experience Telemedicine Fosters Patient Engagement In a survey evaluating outpatient experiences with or without telemedicine, S-CAHPS response rates were as follows: 0.68 ± 0.26 for the no-contact group, 0.84 ± 0.17 for the phone group, and 0.86 ± 0.14 for the video group. ADAPTED FROM: The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery , 2021 Feb 3;103(3):243-250. Day-of-Surgery Video Calls Maximize Satisfaction Regarding the impact on patients’ experiences and future preferences, 85.9 percent of patients receiving day-of-surgery video calls gave a top satisfaction rating for their overall care, compared with 71.8 percent contacted by phone, and 60.7 percent not contacted; and 62 percent of patients receiving day-of-surgery video calls preferred a video call in future encounters with their surgeon, compared with 1.8 percent not contacted and 1.7 percent contacted by phone. ADAPTED FROM: Incorporating telemedicine in lieu of face-to-face office visits or consults is generally associated with high patient satisfaction in orthopedic surgery. In a new study, orthopedic surgeon and colleagues at NYU Langone Health assessed whether day-of-surgery video or phone calls might likewise improve patient satisfaction. Effective communication with patients following outpatient surgery can play a major role in facilitating a successful treatment outcome and ensuring their overall satisfaction,” says Dr. Strauss. “Contacting patients on the night of their procedure, particularly in the form of a video call, is a simple and very useful approach.” For the Journal of Bone & Joint Surgery , three surgeons were randomly assigned to one of three communication methods: no contact with patients after their same-day discharge, contact via a phone call, or contact via a video call. Among 251 enrolled patients, survey response rates were greater in both the video call and phone call groups than in the no-contact group. In a separate satisfaction questionnaire, the video group also scored the highest, followed by the phone group. Patients who received a video call reported a strong preference for that form of communication in the future, supporting its ability to enhance patient satisfaction. “Contacting patients on the night of their procedure, particularly in the form of a video call where the patient can see their surgeon and point out any areas of concern, is a simple and very useful approach,” notes Dr. Strauss. Tranexamic Acid, Total Joint Arthroplasty, and Coronary Artery Disease Study of tranexamic acid (TXA) use in at-risk patients having total joint arthroplasty (TJA) finds no instance of postoperative myocardial infarctions among 26,808 patients receiving topical or intravenous TXA. ADAPTED FROM: J Bone Joint Surg Am . 2021 May 19;103(10):900-904 Orthopedic surgeons have increasingly used tranexamic acid (TXA) as a highly effective intervention for minimizing blood loss during total joint arthroplasty (TJA). Many surgeons, however, have questioned whether TXA might increase the risk for myocardial infarction and venous thromboembolism (VTE) among TJA patients with a history of coronary artery disease (CAD) or coronary stents. , a professor or orthopedic surgery, and colleagues conducted a retrospective analysis of total hip or knee arthroplasty patients, all of whom received either topical or intravenous TXA. Their found no instance of postoperative myocardial infarctions among the at-risk patients, and no significant differences in the rate of VTEs, regardless of the patients’ history of CAD or coronary stents. Furthermore, they saw no significant differences in VTE rates regardless of whether TXA was administered intravenously or topically. Given that both TXA applications minimize blood loss and are equally safe for all TJA patient populations, the researchers recommend intravenous TXA because of its potential for easier implementation. “This essential work supports our continued use of tranexamic acid among all our total joint arthoplasty patients, and helps us achieve better results and outcomes for patients.” “This essential work supports our continued use of t ranexamic acid among all our total joint arthoplasty patients, and helps us achieve better results and outcomes for patients,” Dr. Schwarzkopf says. NYU Langone Orthopedics Physicians at the AAOS Annual Meeting At this year’s meeting, NYU Langone Orthopedics physicians presented 65 papers, 74 posters, 18 videos, and 20 symposia, courses, and special sessions. Notable research from this year’s conference includes: Wednesday, March 23 2:10PM – 2:15PM Paper Presentation Removal of Total Hip and Total Knee Arthroplasty from the Inpatient Only List: Impact on Health Disparities Claudette M. Lajam, MD, FAAOS; Jacob F. Oeding, MS; Joseph A. Bosco, MD, FAAOS; Lauren E. Grobaty, BA Friday, March 25 8:05AM – 8:10AM Buccally Absorbed Cannabidiol Shows Promise in Treating Pain and Improving Satisfaction Immediately Following Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair: A Placebo-Controlled, Double-Blinded, Randomized Trial Andrew S. Rokito, MD,FAAOS, Briana Britton, MS; Danielle H. Markus, BA, Eoghan Hurley, PhD,MCH(ORTH)(UK),MBCHB; Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas, MD, FAAOS; Kevin Kaplan, MD, FAAOS; Kinjal Vasavada, BA; Laith M. Jazrawi, MD,FAAOS, Michael J. Alaia, MD,FAAOS Multidisciplinary Conference for Complex Surgery Leads to Improved Quality and Safety Aaron J. Buckland, MBBS,FRACS; Brooke K. O’Connell; Charla R. Fischer, MD,FAAOS; Constance Maglaras, PhD; Eaman Balouch, MD, PhD; Hershil Patel, BS; Kimberly Ashayeri, MD; Michelle A. Zabat, BA; Nicole A. Mottole, BS; Themistocles S. Protopsaltis, MD,FAAOS, Tina Raman, MD, Zoe Norris P0469 Use of a Novel Augmented Reality Software to Assist in Cephalad Lag Screw Placement into the Femoral Head for Cephalomedullary Nails Abhishek Ganta, MD; Kenneth A. Egol, MD,FAAOS; Meghan C. Derken, BA; Sanjit R. Konda, MD, FAAOS; Sara J. Solasz, BA To see the complete list of presentations and events, Programs for Those with Memory Loss & Their Caregivers , we offer a wide range of activities to enhance the quality of life and wellbeing of family caregivers and friends of people with Special Programs for People with Memory Loss Caregivers can enjoy free time while their relatives engage in these stimulating programs. Buddy Program The Buddy Program pairs an adult in the early stage of with an NYU student for an intergenerational friendship and learning experience. For more information about the Buddy Program, call or email Thea Micoli at Thea.Micoli@NYULangone.org A Place for Us A Place for Us is a recreation group that provides opportunities for people living with memory loss to meet and engage creatively with others through art, music, and dance therapy. During these one- to three-hour sessions, available both in person and online, led by a seasoned recreational therapist and artist, participants are guided through various stimulating activities and projects. Activities include social engagement; exercise; creative projects such as painting, sculpture, collage, and photography; music; and movement. For more information or to register your family member in A Place for Us or our other special programs for people in the early stages of dementia, please email recreation therapist Amy Harris at Amy.Harris2@NYULangone.org Programs for Caregivers We encourage caregivers to participate in specially designed programs to help reduce the stress of caring for a loved one with memory loss. For additional information about our programs or to register, please call Care Consultation Meet with one of our licensed clinical social workers individually or with other family members, by video conferencing, by phone, or in person. Our social workers can help you address changes that have occurred in your daily life and relationships since your relative began having problems with thinking and memory. We also provide information and referrals to appropriate resources in the community. Care consultation is available in English and Spanish. Caregiver Workshops, Lectures, and Seminars Caregiver workshops and lectures on how to provide good care, obtain support for yourself, identify and access resources, implement legal and financial planning, and respond to the challenges of dementia. We also offer seminars on how to use art and music to create positive experiences for the person with dementia. For family members of people who have problems with thinking and memory, our support groups are conducted by video conferencing (Zoom) and by phone. Kaffeklatches These informal gatherings, on Zoom, give family caregivers the opportunity to get together and chat in a supportive environment. Workshops with Museum Educators We hold special workshop series for caregivers with museum educators. This is an opportunity to discuss and create art in a supportive environment with other caregivers. Programs for Caregivers and their Relatives with Memory Loss to Enjoy Together We offer a variety of activities for people with memory loss and their family members or caregivers to participate in together. For more information or to register, please call Museum and Garden Tours and Dance and Musical Performances We offer museum and garden tours and dance and musical performances specially designed for caregivers and their family members with dementia. Memory Cafés Memory cafés on Zoom for caregivers and their family members living with dementia provide opportunities to socialize with games and conversation. Referrals to Affiliated Programs We offer referrals to affiliated programs such as the Unforgettables, a chorus for family caregivers and people with memory loss. The Unforgettables offers the opportunity to rehearse and perform familiar songs and learn new ones with other family caregivers and people with memory loss. Weekly rehearsals culminate with a community concert. No prior musical knowledge or ability is required. We work closely with community partners in the Bronx and Queens. Together with PSS and Sunnyside Senior Services, our three organizations support family caregivers across the five boroughs of New York City. We refer caregivers to additional services, agencies, and professionals in the community to address additional specific needs. Accelerating Innovations in Early-Phase Oncology Trials Perlmutter Cancer Center joins national collaborative to address unmet needs through innovative early-phase trials. Clarifying the Mechanics of Melanoma Metastasis Two studies reveal how melanoma metastasizes in the brain and how epigenetic regulation may aid its spread. Plant-Based Diets: Beneficial for Prostate Cancer? Systematic review ties plant-based regimen to reduced prostate cancer risk, improved outcomes, and overall health. Presenters at the 2022 ASCO Annual Meeting Our cancer experts joined international colleagues in Chicago, June 3-7. The Uncertainty of Avoiding Radical Cystectomy Case exemplifies the complex decisions faced by patients with high-risk NMIBC who elect bladder preservation. Breakthrough Platform Unifies Targeted & Immune Therapies , is an internationally renowned expert in cell signaling and cancer biology and the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Director of NYU Langone Health’s . Here, he discusses the HapImmune platform , which, in broadest terms, is a means to increase the antigenicity of any cancer-specific protein that can be targeted with a covalent inhibitor and presented on human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules. Dr. Neel co-developed the technology with , and it is now being commercialized by Aethon Therapeutics in partnership with NYU Langone. Building on Decades of Research Dr. Neel, you’ve been involved in the advancement of translational programs in immunotherapy, cancer genetics, and targeted therapies for several decades. How have you seen it evolve? Dr. Neel: Forty years ago, we did not know any single gene mutation causes cancer, nor did we understand the molecular basis for cancer progression and drug resistance. Now we’ve identified between 500 and 1,000 gene mutations that, in different combinations, can lead to cancer. As a result, we’ve developed a multitude of treatments, such as targeted therapies, which include small-molecule signal transduction inhibitors and antibodies against receptor tyrosine kinases, as well as small molecules that specifically target mutant oncogenes or components of their downstream signal transduction cascades. We also now have immune therapies, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors, which reactivate the patient’s own immune system against their tumors. Creating Targetable Neoantigens by Design How does the HapImmune platform represent a next step in precision cancer treatment? As I mentioned, some intracellular oncoproteins can be inhibited with targeted therapy, but responses are not durable. On the other hand, immune therapies can be curative, but most oncogene-driven tumors are unresponsive to these treatments. This new platform, HapImmune, creates targetable neoantigens by design, unifying targeted and immune therapy treatment approaches. “[T]his new platform is incredibly exciting and exemplifies where the field will be heading. We’re moving quickly to advance programs focused on combinations with KRAS and EGFR inhibitors, and in the future we plan to develop other drug–antibody combinations.” We know mutant oncoproteins are “neoantigens,” that is they are, by definition, different from their normal counterpart. In principle, the mutant proteins should appear as foreign to the immune system. Fragments of some mutant oncoproteins can be presented by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), which should trigger such an immune response. However, recognizing minimal differences between oncoproteins and their normal counterparts is difficult. Equipped with this knowledge, we developed a platform technology that exploits hapten–peptide conjugates generated by covalent inhibitors to create distinct neoantigens that selectively mark cancer cells. Can you explain how the platform works? The antibodies produced via the HapImmune platform are designed to activate T cells that will specifically eliminate tumor cells. First, we use a technology called phage display to identify antibody fragments that can bind the drug–peptide complex when it is bound to specific MHC molecules. Dr. Koide and his group are experts in this technology. After multiple rounds of phage display, we identified very high-affinity “front-end” antibodies. The chosen antibodies can then be reformatted into customized, bispecific T cell engagers, with one recognition arm directed toward the drug–peptide bound to MHC and the other toward T cell surface proteins, ultimately recruiting more T cells to attack the tumor cells. The same “front end” could also be linked to “back ends” that bring in NK cells or radioactive molecules—or even be developed into CAR T or CAR NK cells. Next Steps of Development In January 2023, you announced the launch of Aethon Therapeutics, a commercial venture designed to further develop the HapImmune platform. What lies ahead? We are still in the early days of development, but this new platform is incredibly exciting and exemplifies where the field will be heading. We’re moving quickly to advance programs focused on combinations with KRAS and EGFR inhibitors, and in the future we plan to develop other drug–antibody combinations. NYU Langone Health and its arm has exclusively licensed to Aethon pending patent applications and expertise covering the HapImmune platform. NYU Langone is the owner of the technology exclusively licensed to Aethon and has equity and other financial interests in Aethon. Dr. Koide and Dr. Neel also have equity in Aethon, and Aethon is also sponsoring research conducted by Dr. Koide and Dr. Neel at NYU Langone. These interests are being disclosed and managed in accordance with NYU Langone policies. Benjamin G. Neel, MD, PhD, is a professor of medicine and the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Director of Perlmutter Cancer Center. He is an internationally renowned expert in cell signaling and cancer biology and is a member of the National Academy of Sciences. Mondor’s Disease: A Case Report & Overview of the Rare Condition A healthy 34-year-old man presented with penile pain persisting for more than three weeks. The patient had been seen by two outside physicians for the same complaint prior to seeking my opinion. The penile pain started a few hours after the man had had intercourse, which he characterized as “nothing out of the ordinary.” The pain was described as localized to the dorsal penile shaft, with tenderness and discomfort radiating from the midshaft dorsal to left lateral. A prominent vein on the dorsal penile shaft was identified as the area of maximal tenderness. I noted the following observations during a physical exam and subsequently made the diagnosis of Mondor’s disease, involving a thrombophlebitis of the dorsal penile vein. Penis: Normal male phallus with normal urethra. No penile erythema or tenderness. No urethral discharge. A cord-like structure was palpable along the dorsal aspect of the penis that extended to the left lateral shaft. There was no hematoma, erythema, or signs of infection. Scrotum: No evidence of scrotal rashes. Testes: Nontender, with no swelling or masses bilaterally. There were no hernias or varicoceles, and the vas deferens and epididymis were palpable and normal bilaterally. Here, I elaborate on the causes and clinical presentation of Mondor’s disease and detail the diagnostic workup. I also discuss management and the condition’s favorable prognosis. Etiology and Clinical Presentation A superficial vein thrombosis first described by Mondor in the chest wall in 1939, Mondor’s disease was broadened to include descriptions of penile phlebitis and thrombosis by Braun-Falco and Helm in 1958 The incidence and prevalence of Mondor’s disease of the penis is relatively rare. Most existing literature is in the form of case reports describing potential etiological factors, such as trauma during sexual activity, vigorous masturbation, or penile infection. As in this patient, the most common presenting etiology is postcoital pain and discomfort, typically overlying a swollen and tender dorsal vein. The presentation of sudden onset of pain and a palpable cord-like structure along the dorsal aspect of the penis is common, but evaluation can be delayed by weeks in some situations. Associated symptoms commonly include swelling, erythema, and bruising, noted especially when sexual activity is vigorous, causing trauma to underlying tissue. This is known as the so-called Virchow’s Triad of vessel wall damage: thrombophlebitis leading to venous stasis and subsequent clot formation A thorough differential diagnosis for penile pain and discomfort should differentiate Mondor’s thrombophlebitis from other conditions like Peyronie’s disease or penile fractures. All three conditions can occur secondary to penile trauma, sustained most commonly while the penis is erect. Diagnosis Diagnostic workup includes a thorough history and physical examination. When the presentation and physical exam are not straightforward, an imaging study is recommended. In our office, we have dedicated, urologically trained ultrasound technicians who have years of experience. An ultrasound is the quickest and least-expensive tool to diagnose Mondor’s disease. The characteristic findings of Mondor’s disease on ultrasound include a thrombosed vein, absence of arterial flow, and noncompressible vein consistent with thrombosis More-detailed studies, such as an MRI of the genitals, can help to rule out penile fractures or other trauma-related penile injuries when ultrasound is not readily available or is inconclusive. Management and Prognosis Mondor’s disease of the penis is rare and is typically related to trauma during the erect state. Rarely do men with the condition need anything more than reassurance, anti-inflammatories, and behavioral modification. Urologists should consider this diagnosis in patients presenting with penile pain and cord-like structures once Peyronie’s disease and penile fracture have been ruled out. Men with Mondor’s disease are often anxious and uncomfortable, and should be reassured that the condition is self-limiting. Conservative management options range from pain management with anti-inflammatories to warm compresses overlying the injured vein. Second-line treatments may be necessary in situations where the patient remains uncomfortable after conservative management. Consideration of anticoagulation therapy to prevent thrombus extension may be warranted in select cases; this can be done in conjunction with the vascular service. Antibiotic therapy should be administered when cellulitis is suspected . Tapered steroid dosing has been described to reduce swelling and discomfort, but is unlikely to change clot formation and resolution. Mondor’s disease has a very favorable prognosis, and symptoms usually resolve within weeks. However, patients may be very distraught and bothered by the injury and may seek out surgical treatment. There are rare cases in which surgical intervention, such as vein stripping, may be necessary for persistent cases of Mondor’s thrombosis Some potential complications include recurrence, persistent pain, and mild erectile dysfunction due to condition-related anxiety or psychological distress. 1. Bird et al. (1997). Traumatic thrombophlebitis of the superficial dorsal vein of the penis: An occupational hazard. Am J Emerg Med. 2. Griger et al. (2001). Penile Mondor’s disease in a 22-year-old man. J Am Osteopath Assoc. 3. Khan et al. (1982). New perspectives in diagnosis and management of thrombophlebitis of the superficial dorsal vein of the penis. J Dermatol Surg Oncol. 4. Nazir et al. (2010). Thrombosis of the dorsal vein of the penis (Mondor’s disease): a case report and review of the literature. Indian J Urol. 5. Swierzewski et al. (1993). The management of penile Mondor’s phlebitis: superficial dorsal penile thrombosis. J. Urol. Seth D. Cohen, MD, MPH Seth D. Cohen, MD, MPH, is a clinical associate professor of urology and the director of the Sexual Dysfunction Program. He specializes in treating erectile and male urinary dysfunction. Presenters at the 2023 AUA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health urologists joined international colleagues in Chicago, April 28–May 1. A Personalized mRNA Vaccine Reduces Melanoma Recurrence Risk Following resection of advanced melanoma, combining a personalized mRNA vaccine with pembrolizumab was shown to reduce the risk of recurrence or death by 44 percent compared to pembrolizumab alone, according to results from the KEYNOTE-942 trial presented at the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) Annual Meeting 2023 The study represents a landmark in the advancement of personalized cancer vaccines, being the first randomized clinical trial with a control arm to show that a personalized mRNA vaccine improved clinical outcomes compared to an existing treatment. “These data provide the first evidence that we can improve upon the rates of recurrence-free survival achieved by PD-1 blockade in resected high-risk melanoma.” “These data provide the first evidence that we can improve upon the rates of recurrence-free survival achieved by PD-1 blockade in resected high-risk melanoma,” , principal investigator of the study and deputy director of NYU Langone Health’s , said in a statement. “These findings also provide the first randomized evidence that a personalized neoantigen approach is potentially beneficial for cancer patients.” Directing T cells to the Tumor With the capacity to encode a tailored combination of up to 34 neoantigen sequences, the mRNA vaccine is designed to initiate an immune response to cancer based on a patient’s unique tumor mutations. According to vaccine developers, the optimal combination of neoantigen sequences is identified in only two hours using an algorithm that analyzes DNA and RNA sequencing data, and roughly six weeks is required for vaccine manufacturing. Once administered, the neoantigen sequences are translated and undergo antigen processing and presentation, directing T cells to attack the cancer. Improved Outcomes, Well Tolerated The study enrolled 157 patients with cutaneous melanoma metastatic to a lymph node or to distant sites and at high risk of recurrence. All patients had complete resection of their melanoma and were randomly assigned 2:1 to receive either the combination treatment or pembrolizumab alone, with the mRNA vaccine administered for a total of 9 doses. In addition to improved recurrence-free survival, the mRNA vaccine was well tolerated, and the adverse event profiles for both the vaccine and pembrolizumab were consistent with past trials . The majority of adverse events were low grade, and the most common vaccine-related adverse event was fatigue. Furthermore, no potentiation of immune-mediated adverse events was seen with the addition of the mRNA vaccine to pembrolizumab. Based on the promising findings, a phase 3 trial will open in 2023 for patients with melanoma, with plans to launch trials of the vaccine in other cancer types soon. Dr. Weber is a paid consultant for Merck and Moderna. A Mid-Treatment Pivot to Trimodal Therapy Many patients with bladder cancer are electing bladder-preserving strategies over radical cystectomy due to reservations over the procedure’s significant morbidity and impact on quality of life. A recent case at NYU Langone Health exemplifies the complexities of such a decision, with a patient with T2 muscle-invasive disease foregoing a previously planned surgery for trimodal therapy (TMT). “This is an excellent example of how multimodal therapy can lead to treatment outcomes similar to radical cystectomy in certain patients, and with far less morbidity,” says urologic oncologist . “Given patient interest in TMT as well as other bladder-preserving treatments, there is a great need for clinical trials designed to guide recommendations.” Reservations Regarding Surgery The patient, a male in his early 80s, presented with gross hematuria (>180 red blood cells), urine cytology positive for cancerous cells, and a 4-centimeter bladder mass on the left lateral wall visible by CT urography. He immediately had surgery to remove the tumor, and pathology revealed high-grade urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation invasive into the muscularis propria. The patient initially agreed to have a radical cystectomy and completed four cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (gemcitabine and cisplatin). With no evidence of residual or metastatic disease, he was cleared for surgery but expressed resistance to urinary diversion and an unwillingness to proceed with the treatment plan. A multidisciplinary tumor board then deemed the patient a candidate for TMT, which the patient agreed to, viewing the chance to preserve bladder function as a welcome relief. Success with Trimodal Therapy Since completing TMT, which involved repeat transurethral resection followed by weekly cisplatin and 55 Gray intensity-modulated radiation, the patient has remained disease-free. The patient tolerated TMT well, developing only mild urinary hesitancy successfully managed with tamsulosin. “This is an excellent example of how multimodal therapy can lead to treatment outcomes similar to radical cystectomy in certain patients, and with far less morbidity.” Critical to success with TMT is appropriate patient selection and strict adherance to the intense treatment schedule, Dr. Barlow says. “Candidates for TMT include patients with organ-confined muscle-invasive bladder cancer and significant medical comorbidities that would make them poor candidates for radical cystectomy, a major surgery with a high complication rate when performed by even the most skilled surgeon,” says Dr. Barlow. “Additionally, TMT is an option for certain patients with muscle-invasive disease localized to the bladder with a strong preference to avoid a urinary diversion.” Management of disease recurrence should be discussed with patients before initiating TMT as salvage radical cystectomy may be recommended and is associated with higher overall morbidity than primary radical cystectomy, Dr. Barlow notes. Advancing New Treatments While there is much interest in TMT, so far no randomized controlled trial has successfully compared TMT to neoadjuvent chemotherapy plus radical cystectomy, Dr. Barlow says. Such studies, combined with ongoing trials evaluating TMT with immunotherapy, are critical next steps to guiding best practices for those with muscle-invasive disease seeking bladder-preserving treatment. LaMont J. Barlow, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and pathology. He specializes in the treatment of bladder and prostate cancer. Blood-Based Test Predicts Cancer Recurrence & Toxicity from Adjuvant Immunotherapy A novel research test that detects changes in a panel of serum autoantibodies has the potential to predict which patients treated with adjuvant immunotherapies are likely to have their cancer recur or have severe immune-related adverse events, according to a Clinical Cancer Research Developed by investigators at NYU Langone Health’s , the test may help physicians and patients make more informed treatment decisions. “The fact that we identified a composite signature of 283 autoantibodies shows that the biological phenomena underlying recurrence and toxicity are complex and cannot be driven by 1 or 2 biomarkers.” “The fact that we identified a composite signature of 283 autoantibodies shows that the biological phenomena underlying recurrence and toxicity are complex and cannot be driven by 1 or 2 biomarkers,” says , senior author of the study and the Rudolf L. Baer Professor of Dermatology in the and a member of Perlmutter Cancer Center. Revealing Hidden Susceptibility The current work focused on patients with melanoma who received adjuvant therapy with either of two leading checkpoint inhibitors, nivolumab or ipilimumab, or a combination of the two agents, as part of large phase 3 clinical trials. The research team suspected that certain patients might have higher levels of key autoantibodies before treatment, but not enough to be detected clinically as autoimmune disease. This hidden susceptibility would then be triggered by checkpoint inhibitors to cause immune-related adverse events. A Score-Based Prediction System For the study, the researchers obtained blood samples from 950 patients enrolled in either CheckMate 238 CheckMate 915 , both phase 3 randomized controlled trials of adjuvant checkpoint inhibitors in patients with advanced melanoma. Tumors in these patients had been surgically removed, and blood samples collected were before they received treatment. The new research test employs a protein microarray containing over 21,000 proteins, covering more than 81 percent of the human proteome. When an antibody in a blood sample recognizes any of the proteins present on the microarray, those spots glow with the signal intensifying as the concentration of antibody increases. Based on the newly identified panel of autoantibodies, and using statistical modeling, co-senior author Judy Zhong, PhD , a professor of population health, developed a score-based prediction system for each treatment. Patients with a high autoantibody recurrence score were found to have quicker disease return than those with a lower score. Similarly, patients with higher pretreatment autoantibody toxicity scores were significantly more likely to develop severe immune-related adverse events than those with lower scores. Importantly, the autoantibody recurrence signature outperformed a clinical model that is the current benchmark for identifying patients likely to respond to immunotherapy. “A unique feature of this panel is that it can simultaneously risk-stratify patients according to their likelihood of experiencing recurrence and developing severe immune-related adverse events.” “A unique feature of this panel is that it can simultaneously risk-stratify patients according to their likelihood of experiencing recurrence and developing severe immune-related adverse events,” says Dr. Zhong. Further Testing Ahead Although the current findings support the predictive utility of the autoantibody scores by comparing them with data from clinical trials, more research is needed to validate the value of such a test in the clinic, and to better understand the relationship between autoantibodies, recurrence, and toxicity. NYU Langone researchers plan to test the predictive value of autoantibody signatures in patients with the other cancer types for which checkpoint inhibitors are currently approved for use. Iman Osman, MD, is the Rudolf L. Baer Professor of Dermatology in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, a professor of medicine and urology, associate dean for clinical research strategy, and the director of the Interdisciplinary Melanoma Cooperative Group. Her research focuses on melanoma. Judy Zhong, PhD, is a professor of population health. Her methodological research interests focus on causal biomarker identification, bias correction for odds ratios from genomic analysis, and high-dimensional directed network inference. Why Do Brain Cells Die in Neurodegenerative Diseases? A groundbreaking study reveals toxic fatty acids are to blame. Blocking astrocyte production of toxic lipoproteins in mice preserved 75 percent of neurons. When production was not blocked, only 10 percent of neurons survived. ADAPTED FROM: Nature, 2021 Nov;599(7883):102-107. , has long known astrocytes in the brain release a toxin in response to neurodegeneration, but until now, the toxic molecule’s identity has remained a mystery. Dr. Liddelow and colleagues sifted through thousands of lipids, proteins, and metabolites generated by astrocytes. They found certain fats in high abundance: long-chain saturated fatty acids and phosphatidylcholines. Results of the experiments, , show damaged brain cells in mice are killed by the fats. Healthy cells are resistant. “Toxic fatty acids produced by astrocytes play a critical role in brain cell death.” Further, the study found blocking formation of these fats in mice mitigates neurodegeneration, preserving 75 percent of neurons as compared to only 10 percent in mice that still produced the toxins. “Toxic fatty acids produced by astrocytes play a critical role in brain cell death and provide a promising new target for treating, and perhaps even preventing, many neurodegenerative diseases,” Dr. Liddelow says. The study offers detailed molecular insight into how tissue damage might lead to brain cell death across neurodegenerative diseases, including in Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, Huntington’s, and multiple sclerosis, he adds. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts joined other world leaders in Seattle for five days of innovation, education, and networking at the 2022 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Below are some highlights of more than 30 presentations featuring NYU Langone physicians and researchers. View the full list of our presenters “The Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC) Experience in an Outpatient Neurology Setting” ; presenters Sujata Thawani, Rachel Kenney, Lisena Hasanaj, Jennifer Frontera, Azizi Seixas, Steven L. Galetta, Laura Balcer; session name: S18: COVID-19: From Bedside and Beyond “At-Home Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) for Teleinterventions: Safety and Tolerability with Remote Supervision” ; presenters Giuseppina Pilloni, Pamela Best, Allan George, Matthew Lustberg, Ibraheem Mirza, Lana Zhovtis Ryerson, Lauren Krupp, Leigh Charvet; session name: S10: Neuro-rehabilitation: Neuromodulation “Vision-Specific Quality of Life in Patients with Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC)” ; presenters Peyton Meyer, Lisena Hasanaj, Rachel Kenney, Steven L. Galetta, Sujata Thawani, Laura Balcer; session name: P18: Neuro-ophthalmology Research: Vision 2 “Leading Under Adversity,” Steven L. Galetta, the Philip K. Moskowitz, MD Professor and Chair of Neurology “Top 10 Clinical, Educational and Administrative Pearls,” Exploring Remote Neuromodulation for Multiple Sclerosis Why Do Brain Cells Die in Neurodegenerative Diseases? In Multiple Sclerosis, DMTs May Affect Immunity to SARS-CoV-2 Immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 were impaired in some patients receiving disease-modifying therapies. 212-263-0462 NTM Patient Education Program At NYU Langone’s Bronchiectasis and Nontuberculous Mycobacteria (NTM) Program, our healthcare team uses its dedication, experience, and research know-how to provide treatments that can improve the lives and life spans of people who have chronic lung ailments. nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infections affect the lungs’ ability to clear mucus from airways. This buildup of fluid affects lung function and increases the chance of infection. Our program brings together a team of pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, infectious disease specialists, otolaryngologists, thoracic surgeons, physiatrists, respiratory therapists, physical therapists, and nutritionists who specialize in chest care to create a treatment plan that best meets the needs of each patient. Patients in our program work with a team of experts, including pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, and respiratory therapists. Our team is also committed to increasing education about these conditions. We host a patient education program on bronchiectasis and NTM infections that is aimed at helping patients better understand the condition and the treatment options available to them. Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Patient Education Program Discover the latest advances in the diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections. Learn More About Our NTM Patient Education Program NYU Langone is a nationally recognized referral center for the treatment of people with bronchiectasis, NTM infections, and cystic fibrosis. Our physicians have treated more than 2,000 patients with these conditions, making us one of the leading care centers in the country. We are fully accredited by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. Clinical and Translational Research in Bronchiectasis, NTM, and Cystic Fibrosis We are dedicated to research in bronchiectasis, NTM, and cystic fibrosis. Our researchers conduct multidisciplinary clinical and translational research . This program enables our experts to integrate research findings with clinical care. We participate in the national research registry and have multiple clinical trials available to patients. Our physicians are leaders in the management of bronchiectasis, nontuberculous mycobacteria infections, and cystic fibrosis. They are actively involved in research initiatives to better understand these conditions and develop new therapies. Bronchiectasis Program Co-Director David L. Kamelhar Ashwin Basavaraj Bronchiectasis Program Associate Director Adult Cystic Fibrosis Program Director Adult Cystic Fibrosis Program Associate Director Leopoldo N. Segal Director, NYU Langone Translational Lung Biology Laboratory Cystic Fibrosis Center We help children and adults with cystic fibrosis manage symptoms and offer effective therapies. We treat people with conditions that affect the airway and make breathing difficult. We provide cardiac and pulmonary rehabilitation. Specialists at NYU Langone’s Airway Center are uniquely qualified to address respiratory conditions, sleep-disordered breathing, and hearing and speech difficulties that may result from upper airway problems. Our experts evaluate and treat people who have associated with a craniofacial problem or cleft palate, and the resonance disorders that can occur if there are obstructions in the nose, mouth, or pharynx, which is where the nasal passages connect to the mouth and throat. Our team members collaborate closely with you and your family as well as with NYU Langone craniofacial experts Meet Our Team Our airway experts include an otolaryngologist, pulmonologist, pediatric nurse practitioner, and speech-language pathologist. Scott M. Rickert David A. Staffenberg 212-263-7710 212-263-2828 At NYU Langone’s Adrenal Surgery Program, people with adrenal disease can receive treatment from our team of experts—endocrinologists, cardiologists, radiologists, and laparoscopic endocrine surgeons—on the same day, at one location. Our specialists treat a range of adrenal conditions, including the following: adrenal tumors adrenocortical carcinoma aldosteroma, also known as Conn’s syndrome The adrenal glands—small organs located on the top of each kidney—produce multiple hormones that are important for your body to function. Adrenal disease occurs when there is a tumor on the adrenal gland, or when there is a hyperactive gland. Tumors of the adrenal glands are often hormonally active, and may result in high blood pressure, rapid heart rate, headache, sweating, easy bruising, fatigue, fluid retention, low potassium levels, and additional symptoms. Early detection by an experienced care team is very important. Whether your doctor recommends surgery or another approach, physicians at our Adrenal Surgery Program use minimally invasive techniques for the majority of patients. Most adrenal surgeries at NYU Langone require just three to four tiny incisions, using a camera and special instruments—what’s known as laparoscopic adrenalectomy. This permits faster recovery, an earlier return to work and other activities, less pain, and more favorable cosmetic results than conventional “open” surgery. Our surgeons have specialized training in laparoscopic surgery, and perform the surgery with dedicated nursing teams and specialized rooms. Almost all patients return home 24 to 48 hours after surgery or other type of adrenal procedure. Our team includes experts in adrenal surgery, endocrinology, nephrology, and interventional radiology. David T. Liu Manish S. Parikh 212-263-0906 Experts in NYU Langone’s Bloodless Medicine and Surgery Program use a variety of techniques to limit or avoid the use of blood transfusions and blood products during surgery or other medical procedures. These strategies, known as bloodless surgery or patient blood management, are aimed at minimizing the use of donor blood or blood products such as red blood cells, white blood cells, plasma, and platelets. Patient Blood Management During COVID-19 Our experts discuss issues related to patient blood management during the pandemic. Our team is highly trained in the latest patient blood management techniques and technology that can reduce blood loss and conserve blood during procedures. Minimally invasive robotic surgery typically helps decrease blood loss through the use of tiny incisions and smaller surgical tools. Our surgeons are skilled in performing these types of procedures in many specialty areas, including , including hip and knee surgery. Research shows that people who avoid receiving blood transfusions have fewer infections and allergic reactions, a faster recovery, and a shorter hospital stay. They can also have fewer complications after surgery. A bloodless approach to treatment also helps prevent exposure to blood-borne viruses and infections. Many people prefer not to have blood transfusions for religious, medical, or personal reasons. Our team believes in supporting your right as a patient to make informed decisions involving your care. We respect your beliefs and work with you to accommodate individual blood management needs and preferences. After meeting with you to discuss blood management options, our doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and other support staff work together to create a treatment plan. We offer various blood conservation techniques and tools to reduce the potential need for blood transfusions before, during, and after surgery. Our team of experts helps prepare you for surgery by screening you for anemia, a condition that develops when your blood does not have enough healthy red blood cells. If necessary, we provide treatment for anemia and ensure adequate levels of hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that transports oxygen throughout the body. Appointments and Referrals A dedicated coordinator works with you, your family, and your doctors to answer your questions. We also provide assistance with doctor referrals and education about your treatment options. For physicians wishing to refer a patient to our program, to schedule an inpatient consult, or for questions about patient rights and bloodless surgery options, please call us at #bloodlessmedicine@nyulangone.org Our program is led by Dr. Seth Perelman, MD, and supported by Sharon Sledge, MA, MS, RN, program coordinator, and Mark Pollard, MHSA, vice president of professional services. Seth Perelman Clinical Lead Nicole M. Adler Alexandra L. Argiroff Deborah M. Axelrod Breast Cancer Surgeon Myint M. Aye Karl Bednarek Nina Beri Gastrointestinal Oncologist Sheila N. Blumberg Brian P. Bosworth Inflammatory Bowel Disease Doctor James D. Capozzi View All 225 Doctors & 225 Patient and Family Support Visiting Hours View All Locations (6) We have several locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island Your Emergency Care Visit At NYU Langone, we know that emergencies can happen anywhere. That’s why we offer emergency care at several locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island, so you can easily access medical treatment for minor and serious injuries and illnesses. Our Commitment to Quality Care We are dedicated to providing one high standard of outstanding care in all of the communities we serve, offering the best outcomes to our patients. Our experts at the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Emergency Medicine treat adults and children for minor and serious injuries and medical conditions. Each year, more than 400,000 people visit our emergency care locations. Our doctors and staff provide treatment for adults and children experiencing serious medical conditions including heart attack, stroke, and infections, as well as minor emergencies such as broken bones. Learn about our emergency care services for children provided through When to Seek Emergency Care When you have a serious injury or illness, don’t wait to seek emergency care. Call 911 or go to the nearest emergency department if you are experiencing any of the following symptoms: Our doctors provide immediate care for adults and children who need medical attention for non–life-threatening conditions, injuries, and illnesses. severe abdominal pain coughing or vomiting blood a severe burn a deep cut or bleeding that won’t stop sudden blurred vision difficulty breathing or shortness of breath a seizure sudden dizziness, weakness, or loss of coordination or balance numbness in the face, arm, or leg sudden, severe headache a high fever You should also seek emergency care for any other symptom you think is serious. Our Locations (6) 570 First Avenue, New York, NY, 10016 Emergency Care Wait Time Minutes* 212-263-5550 718-630-7185 332-210-7536 Medical Records Fax 212-598-7600 For minor medical concerns that need care today or tomorrow, schedule a Virtual UrgentCare video visit to video chat with an NYU Langone Health care provider. *Wait time cannot be guaranteed as it is based on patient needs at the time of your arrival. Critically ill patients will be seen immediately. Updated every 5 minutes. Review information to prepare you for a visit to one of our emergency departments. View Information About Your Emergency Department Visit Smoke-Free Policy Weapon-Free Zone $10 Million Gift Boosts Access to World-Class Emergency Care Our Pediatric Experts Offer Tips to Help Kids Weather Summer Tips for Preventing Summertime Injuries in Children Federal Grant Will Fund New Ambulances Virtual Urgent Care Helps Get Nurse Manager to the ER By Tracking Daily Clinical Data, NYU Langone Remains Nimble A Solid Game Plan Ensures Calm Amid the COVID-19 Storm Keeping Patients Safe in Our Emergency Departments In Multiple Sclerosis, DMTs May Affect Immunity to SARS-CoV-2 found that patients on certain disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) for multiple sclerosis (MS) had markedly impaired adaptive immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection, although immune responses did not correlate with COVID-19 clinical severity. Lead researcher , a professor of neurology, says the team was surprised by the findings. “Understanding the impact of DMTs on the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 is critical for counseling patients with MS about COVID-19 risks and determining whether a patient on a particular DMT is likely to derive a similar degree of protective immunity as healthy individuals,” Dr. Kister says. Responses After Natural Infection MS is treated with several therapies that may impair immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The widely used anti-CD20 (aCD20) therapies have been associated with reduced antibody titers following infection, potentially due to depletion of peripheral B cells that would otherwise be available for recruitment into germinal centers for antigen-mediated activation and clonal expansion. “T cell responses following natural infection in aCD20-treated patients have received less attention, but are an active area of investigation,” Dr. Kister says. “Our relatively young and otherwise healthy MS patients on various DMTs generally had favorable clinical course despite markedly impaired adaptive immune responses associated with some of the DMTs, including aCD20 therapies and S1P receptor modulators” Research Design and Findings Between January and July 2021, 389 patients with clinician-diagnosed MS aged 18 to 60 years were tested for anti-nucleocapsid and anti-spike receptor-binding domain (RBD) antibodies. Antibody responses to spike protein, RBD and N-terminal domain (NTD), and T cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 spike protein were also tested using a variety of assays. The mean age of study participants was 40.3 years; 74 percent were female and 62 percent were non-white. The most common DMTs were ocrelizumab (40 percent), natalizumab (17 percent), and sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulators (12 percent). After testing, 177 patients (46 percent) had laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, including 130 symptomatic cases and 47 asymptomatic cases. Among the participants, COVID-19 clinical course was mild overall, with only 9 patients (7 percent) hospitalized–these results did not differ across DMTs. Antibody responses were markedly attenuated in patients treated with ocrelizumab compared to other groups. T cell responses were significantly decreased in patients treated with S1P receptor modulators and increased in patients treated with natalizumab. Cellular and humoral responses were moderately correlated for patients treated with ocrelizumab and for patients treated with non-OCR DMTs. Neither clinical nor immunologic outcomes differed by race/ethnicity. Differences in DMTs “Our relatively young and otherwise healthy MS patients on various DMTs generally had favorable clinical course despite markedly impaired adaptive immune responses associated with some of the DMTs, including aCD20 therapies and S1P receptor modulators,” Dr. Kister says. “It is also reassuring that patients whose B cells were depleted with therapy still had similarly robust T cell memory to infection as did untreated patients.” Based on these results, Dr. Kister and his team are conducting more in-depth studies to better understand the humoral–cellular dissociation in aCD20-treated patients, and to identify predictors of immune response in patients on different DMTs. Ilya Kister, MD, is a professor of neurology and director of the Neuromyelitis Optica Treatment and Research Program. His research interests include the effects of COVID-19 vaccination on antibody response in patients with multiple sclerosis. Most Patients Achieve Orgasm in First Year After Gender-Affirming Vaginoplasty Study finds 86 percent become orgasmic by one year after robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty, with more regaining ability after one year. Clarifying the Mechanics of Melanoma Metastasis Eva M. Hernando-Monge, PhD Patients with melanoma develop brain metastasis at a higher rate than those with any other common cancer, with an estimated 40 to 50 percent of stage 4 melanomas spreading to the brain . A new study led by NYU Langone Health researchers implicates proteins better known for their roles in neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease in that metastasis. The study, , demonstrated that amyloid beta (Aβ) is essential for the growth and survival of melanoma cells in brain parenchyma. “This study reveals an unexpected role for tumor-secreted amyloid beta in promoting the survival of melanoma brain metastases, and also suggests a new way to counter it,” says , who led the research team. “This study reveals an unexpected role for tumor-secreted amyloid beta in promoting the survival of melanoma brain metastases, and also suggests a new way to counter it.” In addition to suggesting a key role played by Aβ in advancing metastasis, the team showed in a proof-of-principle demonstration that beta-secretase inhibitors (BACEi) initially developed for Alzheimer’s disease may hold promise in delaying and significantly reducing the growth of brain metastasis in melanoma. “We are trying to repurpose small molecule inhibitors and antibodies that were originally developed to target Aβ,” she says. “It’s very exciting but still early days for testing it.” A New Research Model Previous models of brain metastasis had yielded inconsistent results in differential gene expression. Dr. Hernando-Monge’s research team used a more physiological model consisting of short-term cultures of metastatic melanoma cells resected during patient surgeries to better represent the heterogeneity of the initial tumors. The group then used a proteomics analysis to compare 12 brain metastases with 12 extracranial metastases, including some pairs that had been resected from the same patient. Some of the proteins upregulated in metastatic melanoma are involved in mitochondrial metabolism and scavenging of reactive oxygen species, suggesting a means by which melanoma cells in the brain may tamp down oxidative stress. In addition, the researchers found a significant upregulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) as well as multiple proteins involved in processing and cleaving APP into Aβ. Dr. Hernando-Monge hypothesizes that melanoma cells arriving in the brain adopt neural-like features and secrete soluble Aβ. Surrounding astrocytes would normally warn of the new threat, prompting microglia to phagocytose the metastatic cells. But Aβ may temper that normal immune response and enlist the astrocytes in a noninflammatory role that promotes growth of melanoma cells instead. The group is now testing BACEi or anti-Aβ antibodies alone and in combination with immunotherapy as a potential treatment for brain metastasis, Dr. Hernando-Monge says. Linking an Epigenetic Regulator to Metastasis A second study led by Dr. Hernando-Monge’s team and has helped clarify why some melanomas metastasize and others don’t, even after being fully resected. “Years later, in some patients, there will be a recurrence or even a distal metastasis,” she says. “But when we compare the stage 1 or 2 tumors that have recurred with those that have not recurred, we don’t see any genetic mutation that distinguishes them.” For years, the lab has hypothesized that epigenetic mechanisms could be drivers of the metastatic behavior. Through a systematic meta-analysis and mini-screen for chromatin-regulating genes consistently altered in metastasis, the group identified a protein called plant homeodomain finger protein 8, or PHF8, that is upregulated in metastatic melanoma cells compared to primary cancer cells. Silencing PHF8, a histone demethylase, via two separate mechanisms had no effect on cell proliferation, but consistently reduced cell invasion in an in vitro assay. In a mouse model, silencing PHF8 also yielded a reduction in metastasis. To shine more light on the potential mechanism, the study in turn characterized how the pro-metastatic TGF-β pathway is regulated by PHF8. Since the epigenetic regulator shares homology with multiple members of the same family, targeting it with sufficient specificity may be difficult. Even so, Dr. Hernando-Monge says other techniques, such as targeting PHF8 for degradation by linking it to a ubiquitin ligase enzyme or targeting other proteins downstream of its regulatory activity, may yet allow the pathway to be targeted therapeutically. “There is much more that this PHF8 story has yet to reveal,” she says. Eva M. Hernando-Monge, PhD, is a professor of pathology and the assistant dean for research integration. She focuses on melanoma and metastasis-related research. Accelerating Innovations in Early-Phase Oncology Trials Janice Mehnert, MD, is among the researchers at Perlmutter Cancer Center conducting early-stage oncology trials. Over the past 30 years there has been a considerable effort on the part of researchers to improve the design and accuracy of early-phase oncology trials . One such effort is the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical Trials Network (ETCTN) , a partnership program sponsored by the National Cancer Institute (NCI)–Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) to evaluate early-phase trials in high-priority areas of unmet need through collaboration with a dozen Lead Academic Organizations (LAOs). has officially joined the ETCTN as part of the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center LAO. , a professor of medicine and associate director for clinical research, is serving as site principal investigator (PI) for the network. “This achievement exemplifies the advancement of our clinical trial capabilities, as there are only 12 LAOs nationwide.” “Joining the ETCTN grants our center access to a broader network of early-stage trials conducted by NCI-CTEP,” Dr. Mehnert says. “This achievement exemplifies the advancement of our clinical trial capabilities, as there are only 12 LAOs nationwide.” Testing Novel Agents in Early-Phase Trials Kristen Spencer, DO, MPH , an assistant professor of medicine and director of the Phase 1 Developmental Therapeutics Program, is conducting early-stage research and supporting the national execution of new oncology trials, a primary focus of the ETCTN. One NCI Investigational New Drug (NCI-IND) currently under evaluation is peposertib, a selective DNA-PK inhibitor, which showed synergy with radiotherapy and some chemotherapies in preclinical studies. Recent evidence suggests that peposertib could enhance the efficacy of standard therapeutic regimens in selected tumor types. Dr. Spencer is serving as national PI for CTEP protocol 10276 , an NCI-sponsored trial of peposertib in combination with avelumab and hypofractionated radiation therapy in patients with solid tumors and hepatobiliary malignancies. Another NCI-IND is ASTX727, a unique fixed-dose combination of the hypomethylating agent decitabine and the cytidine deaminase inhibitor cedazuridine. When administered in combination with immunotherapy, ASTX727 may help stimulate the body’s immune system to attack cancer, and interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Catherine S. Diefenbach, MD , an associate professor of medicine and director of the Clinical Lymphoma Program, is acting as PI for CTEP protocol 10508 , an NCI-sponsored trial evaluating the combination of ASTX727 and nivolumab for relapsed or refractory B cell lymphoma. “These are two examples of innovative early-phase trials initiated through the ETCTN partnership,” Dr. Spencer says, adding that faculty will have increased opportunities to design investigator-initiated studies with CTEP. Advancing Biomarker Discovery In addition to supporting early-stage clinical trials, the ETCTN also provides support for studies that incorporate biomarker development and molecular characterization of biospecimens. Dr. Spencer anticipates the ETCTN partnership will streamline processes required for coordinated biomarker analyses. On a national level, Dr. Spencer is also chair of the Genomics Subcommittee of the ECOG-ACRIN Cancer Research Group , a membership-based network of nearly 1,300 academic and community-based cancer centers that design and conduct cancer research. Collaboration with Other Research Leaders A key benefit of the ETCTN is the opportunity to partner with other leading cancer centers, including investigators from the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center and Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center, for their own expertise in timely activation and conduction of early-phase oncology trials, says Dr. Mehnert. “A big unmet need in early-phase cancer trials is the sharing of best practices and collaboration in the design of new studies. We anticipate ETCTN-based collaborations will open new avenues to further the development of innovative cancer therapies.” “A big unmet need in early-phase cancer trials is the sharing of best practices and collaboration in the design of new studies. We anticipate ETCTN-based collaborations will open new avenues to further the development of innovative cancer therapies,” Dr. Mehnert says. Janice Mehnert, MD, is a professor of medicine and associate director for clinical research at Perlmutter Cancer Center. She also serves as director of melanoma and cutaneous medical oncology and co-director of the Phase 1 Developmental Therapeutics Program. Her research focus is on the development of novel therapies for skin and other advanced cancers. Kristen Spencer, DO, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine and director of the Phase 1 Developmental Therapeutics Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research focus is on the development of innovative cancer treatments, including novel immunotherapies and targeted therapies in early stages of clinical development. Plant-Based Diets: Beneficial for Prostate Cancer? Delicious Asian Green Curry with Coconut Milk – vegan and organic with chickpeas, bell pepper, tomatoes, coriander, zucchini, ginger, garlic While plant-based diets are increasingly popular and have many well-established benefits for health, emerging evidence suggests they might also reduce prostate cancer risk. systematic review , clinical assistant professor of urology at NYU Langone Health, and Stacy Loeb, MD, PhD (Hon) , professor of urology and population health, found lifestyle modifications incorporating a plant-based diet were associated with improved oncologic outcomes in men with favorable-risk prostate cancer on active surveillance and those with biochemical recurrence after initial therapy. “Prostate cancer diagnosis is a teachable moment, and studies show that providing counseling about nutrition can lead to sustained improvements in dietary habits among men with prostate cancer,” Dr. Gupta says. Reviewing the Literature The research team searched major databases for studies that included primary data on plant-based dietary patterns and incidence among at-risk men for prostate cancer, or oncologic, general health/nutrition, or quality of life outcomes among patients diagnosed with prostate cancer. They found 31 publications that included a total of 16 interventional and 15 observational studies. The majority of interventional studies showed improvements in short-term oncologic outcomes, alongside improvements in general health and nutrition. Epidemiologic studies primarily focused on prostate cancer risk, showing either protective or null associations for plant-based dietary patterns, while studies of the vegan diet consistently showed favorable associations with risk and/or outcomes. “Our systematic review confirms that plant-based diets may help to prevent prostate cancer and, for patients with prostate cancer, reduce the risk of progression,” Dr. Loeb says. Other Potential Benefits Exploring plant-based dietary patterns is particularly timely as they have been suggested as a potential solution to current global issues including emerging infectious diseases and climate change, the researchers add. “Antibiotic resistance is another major public health threat, and there is increasing concern about the contribution from use of antimicrobial drugs in food-producing animals,” Dr. Gupta says. “Overall, the findings are encouraging in light of the many benefits of plant-based diets for overall health, environmental sustainability, and animal welfare.” Further Research As a follow-up to this review, the researchers are planning a number of interventional studies. “We’re planning a pilot study for firefighters in New York City, which would include plant-based cooking demonstrations to promote healthy dietary shifts and men’s health,” Dr. Gupta says. “Providing guidance about healthy dietary patterns is a key component of holistic care.” Natasha Gupta, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of urology and a postdoctoral scholar in population health. Her research and clinical interests focus on sexual health, plant-based diets, and cancer survivorship. Presenters at the 2023 AUA Annual Meeting This spring, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Urological Association’s 2023 annual meeting in Chicago. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year. See additional highlights here Friday, April 28 Office-Based Therapies : Society of Urodynamics, Female Pelvic Medicine & Urogenital Reconstruction (SUFU) Panelist : 12:40–1:20 pm : Hyatt Regency McCormick-Regency Ballroom A Debate Topic: Mini PCNL vs. Ureteroscopy for Medium-Sized Stones : Indian American Urological Association (IAUA) Debater Areeba Sadiq, MD : 8:30–8:45 am : Hyatt Regency McCormick Jackson Park MP19-14 Who Receives Third Line Therapies for Overactive Bladder? Trends from Data in the AUA AQUA Registry : Katherine Shapiro, MD NYU Langone Co-Authors : Dora Jericevic Schwartz, MD, : S401A MP14-01: Evaluation of a Novel Cystoscopic Cryocatheter for the Destruction of Bladder Cancer Anthony Corcoran, MD Aaron E. Katz, MD : S403 MP19-12: The Telemed Vasectomy Consult is a Safe Alternative to In-person Consults: A Retrospective Study in a High-Volume Center : Phillip Westbrook, MD Richard A. Schoor, MD 3:30–5:30 pm MP19-13: No Detectable Association between Virtual Setting for Vasectomy Consultation and Vasectomy Completion Rate : Ari Bernstein, MD : Hunter Hernandez, Ethan Zhu, Bryce Saba, Eli Rapoport, MD, Saturday, April 29 Podium Session PD12-09: Outcomes of 429 Primary Robotic Peritoneal Flap Gender-Affirming Vaginoplasty Cases : Gaines Blasdel : Charles Dubach-Reinhold; Elijah Castle, : 8:20–8:30 am : S401C PD12-10: Does Body Mass Index Influence Vaginoplasty Outcomes? : Elijah Castle : 8:30–8:40 am PD15-12: Impact of MRI Detected Hydrogel Spacer Rectal Wall Infiltration on Radiation-Related Toxicity Following 5-Fraction Prostate Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy Jonathan Haas, MD , Vianca Santos, MPH, Christopher Mendez, MA, CCRP, Astrid Sanchez, MS; Ankur M. Doshi, MD Angela Tong, MD : 8:50–9 am : S502 MP34-15: The Role of Ferroptosis in Neutrophils-Mediated Innate Immune Defense Against Urinary Tract Infection Yan Liu, PhD : 9:30–11:30 am : S405 Collaboration with Academic Institutions and International Independent Practice Research Symposium 11:04–11:13 am : N427A Q&A with Session Speakers : Independent Practice Research Symposium : 11:13–11:20 am MP42-13: Robotic Non-transecting Ureteral Reimplantation: A Multi-Institutional Experience : Brian Chao, MD : S505 MP45-10: Understanding the Sexual Health Concerns and Needs of Female Partners of Prostate Cancer Survivors : Nataliya Byrne, Tatiana Sanchez Nolasco, MPH, : S404C Sunday, April 30 My Pathway to Focal Therapy: Rationale for Novel Treatment of Prostate Cancer : Engineering and Urology Section of the Endourolgical Society (EUS) : 10:31–10:45 am : Marriott Marquis Chicago-Grand Horizon Ballroom A Plenary Presentation State of the Art Lecture: Role of Estrogen in Treatment of FSD, GSM, and UTIs : 1–1:15 pm : Hall B1 Podium Session MP61-18: Stimulated Raman Histology, a Novel Method for Intraoperative Surgical Margin Assessments During Robotic Assisted Laparoscopic Prostatectomy : Miles P. Mannas, MD, Fang-Ming Deng, MD, PhD Samir S. Taneja, MD Active Surveillance 2.0: Impact of MRI and Biomarkers on Surveillance Strategy : Urological Society for American Veterans (USAV) : 1:35–1:55 pm : Hyatt Regency McCormick-Regency Ballroom C PD35-03 Robotic Posterior Urethroplasty: 105 Cases From a Single Center : Alex Wang, MD Ashley V. Alford, MD : 3:40–4 pm PD38-07: Stimulated Raman Histology Interpretation by Artificial Intelligence Can Provide Real-Time Pathologic Feedback of Prostate Biopsies Derek H. Jones, MD Deepthi Hoskoppal, MD Jonathan Melamed, MD : 4:30­–4:40 pm GU Robotic Reconstruction : 4:30–5:30 pm Monday, May 1 MP73-14: Biopsy Assessment of Oncologic Control Three Years Following Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation (PPGCA) : Eli Rapoport, MD, Rozalba Gogaj, MD, MPH, : 7–9 am : S504 Presenters at the 2022 ASCO Annual Meeting PHOTO: Christopher Alvarenga via Unsplash This June, our researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the annual ASCO meeting in Chicago. This year’s program featured over 200 sessions complementing the meeting’s theme: Advancing Equitable Cancer Care Through Innovation . View Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and fellows this year (see full listings of presenters at the links provided). June 4 Cancer: Common Humanity, Different Worlds Speaker: Kevin Diasti, MD, fellow, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: Arie Crown Theater Doubling Down on Immunotherapy Kristen Renee Spencer, DO, MPH , director, Phase I Program, Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU, assistant professor of medicine, NYU Grossman School of Medicine Poster Session Experiences of researchers fulfilling VHA’s “fourth mission” during the COVID-19 pandemic. Presenter: Kenneth Csehak, MD, fellow, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Safety and efficacy of daratumumab use in patients with renal impairment and hemodialysis. Presenter: Mateusz Niewinski, BA, BPS, PharmD, pharmacy resident, NYU Langone Health June 5 Endometrial Cancer Barriers in the LGBTQ Community Gwendolyn Quinn, PhD , the Livia S. Wan, M.D. Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, professor, Department of Population Health Location: E253b | In-Person Only TAK-676 in combination with pembrolizumab after radiation therapy in patients (pts) with advanced non–small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), or squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN): Phase 1 study design. Benjamin Thomas Cooper, MD , assistant professor, Department of Radiation Oncology BASECAMP-1: Leveraging human leukocyte antigen (HLA) loss of heterozygosity (LOH) in solid tumors by next-generation sequencing (NGS) to identify patients with relapsed solid tumor for future logic-gated Tmod CAR T-cell therapy. Presenter: Diane M. Simeone, MD, the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Professor of Surgery, Departments of Surgery and Pathology Phase 1 results of a phase 1/2 trial of CYT-0851, a first-in-class inhibitor of RAD51-mediated homologous recombination, in patients with advanced solid and hematologic cancers. , clinical assistant professor, Department of Medicine at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, medical oncologist, Perlmutter Cancer Center June 6 Examination of speakership gender disparity at an international oncology conference. Presenter: Jessica Caro, MD, chief fellow, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: E350 PD-1 Plus X: Which Combinations in Early Development Are Showing the Most Promise? , professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: S100a Activity of adagrasib (MRTX849) in patients with KRASG12C-mutated NSCLC and active, untreated CNS metastases in the KRYSTAL-1 trial. Joshua K. Sabari, MD , assistant professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: Hall D1 Racial concordance and trust in health communications: A randomized trial of videos about prostate cancer. , professor, Departments of Urology, and Population Health A phase 1/2 study of BLU-945 in patients with common activating EGFR -mutant non–small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): SYMPHONY trial in progress. What is driving declines in oncology-prescribed opioids? Presenter: Tarlise Townsend, PhD, postdoctoral fellow, Department of Population Health, Division of Epidemiology, NYU Langone Health Center for Opioid Epidemiology & Policy ARTISTRY-6: Nemvaleukin alfa monotherapy in patients with advanced mucosal and cutaneous melanoma. , the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Professor of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology A phase 1/2 multicenter investigator-initiated trial of DKN-01 as monotherapy or in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). David R. Wise, MD, PhD , assistant professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, and Department of Urology Salvage Cryoablation for Radiation-Recurrent Prostate Cancer Cryoablation is an established therapeutic option for patients with radiation-recurrent prostate cancer. Tackling Nonspecific Lung Nodules New research projects, clinical initiatives aim to clarify risk factors and improve screening. Prostate Cancer Screening: Can Community-Based Intervention Improve Engagement? Researchers are testing a more proactive approach to address screening inequities. The Uncertainty of Avoiding Radical Cystectomy Patient’s CT urogram prior to enrollment in CheckMate 9UT. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Bladder Preservation Poses a Difficult Dilemma Having deferred radical cystectomy for years, a patient with a long history of recurrent high-risk non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC), who became unresponsive to bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), responded well after ultimately undergoing surgery and urinary diversion. Gary D. Steinberg, MD , director of the Goldstein Urology Bladder Cancer Program at , the case is representative of a common clinical conundrum—is it safe to defer or avoid radical cystectomy for BCG-unresponsive high-risk disease? While radical cystectomy is highly curative, many patients decline to undergo the procedure due to the life-altering consequences and reduced quality of life. “The risk of progression to muscle invasion and/or metastatic disease is greatly increased for patients with high-grade non-muscle invasive bladder cancer that does not respond to BCG,” Dr. Steinberg says. “In general, progression may occur within six to 12 months.” The patient, a white male in his 70s, was initally diagnosed in 2011 with T1 high-grade NMIBC. In addition to BCG, his prior treatment history included mitomycin-C and interferon (IFN)-α. “The patient reports improved quality of life with his ileal conduit urinary diversion which has eliminated his irritative voiding symptoms and incontinence episodes.” After presenting to NYU Langone Health in 2019 for evaluation and management, the patient was diagnosed with BCG-unresponsive carcinoma of the bladder and counselled on radical cystectomy—being the standard of care per national and international guidelines—as well as alternative therapies and clinical trials. Aiming to preserve his bladder, the patient opted to enroll in CheckMate 9UT * . He was assigned to the three-drug arm and began treatment. When pathology revealed recurrence at six-month follow-up, the patient elected to undergo radical cystectomy and ileal conduit urinary diversion. Due to urothelial carcinoma involving the prostatic urethra, urinary diversion through orthotopic neobladder reconstruction was contraindicated. The patient regained significant function four weeks after surgery and currently shows no evidence of disease. The patient reports improved quality of life with his ileal conduit urinary diversion which has eliminated his irritative voiding symptoms and incontinence episodes,” Dr. Steinberg says. The CheckMate 9UT trial closed without reaching accrual goals due to low patient enrollment caused by the BCG shortage and the COVID-19 pandemic Enrollment in the CheckMate 9UT Trial The patient presented with a history of high-risk NMIBC that persisted and recurred despite intravesical BCG immunotherapy. Choosing to avoid radical cystectomy, the patient elected to enroll in CheckMate 9UT, a phase 2 combination immunotherapy study, and was enrolled to the three-drug arm—nivolumab with linrodostat with BCG. Cancer Recurrence Image from cystoscopy revealing diffuse erythema, inflammation and carcinoma in situ. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff After completing treatment, complete response was noted at first response assessment. However, cystoscopy at six-month follow-up revealed a multifocal necrotic tumor as well as multiple papillary/sessile tumors with more than 5 centimeters bladder involvement. Pathology confirmed carcinoma of the right bladder wall, anterior bladder wall, and prostatic urethra. Observations During Radical Cystectomy Image from cystoscopy revealing diffuse erythema, inflammation, and carcinoma in situ. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff The patient ultimately elected radical cystectomy and urinary diversion. While the surgery was uncomplicated, during the procedure the patient was noted to have bilateral hydroureteronephrosis, dense pelvic lymph nodes with some enlarged lymph nodes, dense scar tissue and fibrosis, and a short, thick wall intestinal mesentery. Gary D. Steinberg, MD, is a professor of urology and director of the Goldstein Urology Bladder Cancer Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in radical cystectomy and urinary tract reconstruction and leads multiple clinical trials investigating new medications and procedures for the treatment of bladder cancer. Applying 3D Treatment Planning to Prostate Cryoablation Research explores a new modeling technique for personalized, precision treatment. Mapping the Opportunity for Focal Therapy Pushing Novel Therapeutics for Bladder Cancer Through to the Finish Line A slew of new treatments may help ease reliance on BCG, radical cystectomy. Confronting Social Media’s Double-Edged Influence in Urology Research reveals urologic misinformation abounds, but also opportunities to advance patient care and equity. Prostate Cancer Screening: Can Community-Based Intervention Improve Engagement? Black men are disproportionately affected by prostate cancer, which is is the second leading cause of cancer death among men in the U.S., although mortality has dropped since the adoption of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening. recommend a shared decision-making approach to PSA screening between at-risk men and their healthcare providers. , an associate professor of urology and population health and , an associate professor of population health and medicine, have initiated a randomized clinical trial to evaluate whether a community health worker (CHW)-led decision coaching model can be a feasible, low-cost intervention to improve patient decision-making for prostate cancer screening among Black male patients and their healthcare providers. The trial is funded by the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities and is done in partnership with Flatbush Family Health Clinic. Pervasive Disparities Why are Black men disproportionately affected by prostate cancer? Dr. Makarov: Prostate cancer comprises approximately one third of all new cancers in Black men, but the incidence rate is 70 percent higher for Black men compared with other groups, and mortality is 2-3 times higher relative to white men. “Our hypothesis is that differences in PSA screening rates are a signficant contributer to racial disparity in outcomes.” Previous data have shown that low socioeconomic status is a predictor of poor prostate cancer outcomes, including mortality, but the Black/white disparity persists even when adjusting for other factors. Our hypothesis is that differences in PSA screening rates are a signficant contributer to racial disparity in outcomes. CHWs Support Shared Decision-Making Can you explain shared decision-making in the context of PSA screening and your research? An informed decision-making, or shared decision-making approach, to PSA screening includes three critical steps: information exchange, deliberation, and ultimately a shared decision between the patient and healthcare provider. Most prostate cancer screening decisions do not meet the criteria for this as they lack a balanced discussion of decision consequences and preference clarification. We believe that shared decision-making is very important especially for Black men, among whom the balance of risks and benefits is not definitively established, but likely favors screening. What is unique about a CHW-led intervention model? Dr. Ravenell: The strength of the CHW model is derived from its roots of community organizing, social support, social networks, self-efficacy, and peer models. In general, it’s an effective model in communities that need a culturally sensitive, contextualized approach to health promotion and intervention. Prior research, including work by our team at NYU Langone Health , suggests CHWs are effective in supporting cancer screening decisions in the Black community. Testing the CHW-Led Intervention What are you hoping to learn from this trial and how does it work? Our study has four aims To test whether a CHW-led decision coaching program affects decision quality, the decision-making process, patient-provider communication, and PSA utilization for Black men in the primary care setting; To assess whether a CHW-led decision coaching program improves provider experience with counseling Black men considering PSA screening; To determine the cost and budget impact of a CHW-led decision coaching program for PSA screening; and To assess participant attitudes, behaviors, and norms around PSA screening, and assess perceptions of the feasibility, acceptability, and sustainability of CHW-led decision coaching in the primary care setting. The study is being conducted at a primary care clinic in Brooklyn. Participants in the intervention arm will receive a decision aid by mail and CHW-led decision coaching on PSA screening one hour before their appointment, while those in the control arm will receive the same decision aid by mail, but have a CHW-led discussion on cardiovascular dietary and lifestyle modification rather than PSA screening. The discussion of cardiovascular risk reduction serves as an attention control. What is the current status of the trial? Do you have any preliminary results? This trial is ongoing. Recruitment started in June 2019 and we are still accruing. The trial procedures are expected to be completed by the end of March 2023. What other equity and minority health initiatives are ongoing at NYU Langone Health? We have a range of initiatives led or coordinated by our centered on the promotion of equity and health for all our patients. Danil V. Makarov, MD, is an associate professor of urology and population health and director of surgical research in the Department of Population Health. His research interests include the development of new interventions to address prostate cancer disparities among underserved populations. Joseph Ravenell, MD is an associate professor of population health and medicine, and associate dean for diversity and inclusion. His research interests include developing and testing novel community-engaged strategies to improve cancer screening and cardiovascular disease prevention among underserved populations. Tackling Nonspecific Lung Nodules Over the last several years, NYU Langone Health has built a rapidly growing program to expand access to lung cancer screening , regardless of a patient’s ability to pay. This effort is not only improving early detection, but also increasing the frequency at which physicians are faced with complex decisions about nonspecific lung nodules. “About 30 percent of people getting lung cancer screening will have nonspecific nodules, and we don’t know what they mean,” says . “The question is, which one of those nodules is going to change? And can we predict that earlier?” To pave the way for clear, informed treatment recommendations for nonspecific lung nodules, NYU Langone investigators have launched several research projects and clinical initiatives, all with the central focus of better understanding which nodules are and are not likely to be cancerous. A Focus on Risk Factors in Nonsmokers To elucidate risk factors and biomarkers, the investigators have turned their attention to the surprisingly high proportion of lung cancers in nonsmokers. “Between 15 to 20 percent of lung cancers are found in nonsmokers,” says Dr. Chachoua. “This is a different disease in terms of molecular features. Even the demographics tend to be younger.” An initial focus of this work is on Asian women. Over 40 percent of Asian women diagnosed with lung cancer are nonsmokers—roughly double the rate of the general population—and the cause is unclear. In an ongoing three-year study led by , an oncologist and assistant professor of medicine, nonsmoking Asian American women in the New York City area will receive an annual low-dose CT chest scan, donate blood samples, and provide information on family history and environmental and World Trade Center dust exposures. The goal is two-pronged: to determine lung cancer incidence in Asian American women and build a database and biorepository that can be used to identify factors that contribute to the development of cancerous nodules. “As we continue to screen, we are also gathering important information to better understand the pathogenesis of lung cancer.” Currently, there are over 80 participants enrolled, of which 73 have completed initial CT scans. “Two cancers have been found in this group, which is an incidence of 2.7 percent. That is similar to the incidence of lung cancer in smokers,” Dr. Chachoua says. “Our study continues to increase its enrollment, but these early cases are encouraging that our idea to screen another potential high-risk population may be of benefit,” Dr. Shum adds. “As we continue to screen, we are also gathering important information to better understand the pathogenesis of lung cancer, not just in Asian women nonsmokers but in all nonsmokers.” Detecting Patterns in DNA Fragments A concurrent biomarker study is assessing whether fragments of tumor DNA in peripheral blood yield patterns indicative of lung cancer. The study is led by Dr. Shum, , director of the Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, and Jun-Chieh J. Tsay, MD , an assistant professor of medicine, in collaboration with Delfi Diagnostics. The goal is to assess whether patients who are screened and ultimately found to have cancerous nodules have a different DNA fragmentation pattern than those who are screened and aren’t found to have lung cancer. “All of the patients enrolled in our study of lung cancer in nonsmoking Asian American females have had this test done,” explains Dr. Chachoua. “It will be interesting to see whether the two patients identified with cancer will have unique signatures by DNA fragmentation. That will be a big innovation for the field.” Diverse Research Ahead Additional research projects on the horizon will evaluate whether breath tests or readouts from the lung microbiome can be used to detect cancerous nodules. Dr. Chachoua also notes an interest addressing why a low percentage of patients eligible for screening come in to receive a scan. “We’ve had 655 referrals since we started the lung cancer screening program. About 40 percent are eligible for screening, and out of the eligible patients only 67 percent got their scan,” Dr. Chachoua says. “We’re going to do a population science study in that area to address the gap.” Assembling Experts to Review Nonspecific Nodules Another notable development is the formation of a lung nodule review board, which reviews all nodules with Lung-RADS scores of 3 or 4—those that are of high suspicion to become cancer. “After forming this dedicated team, we found that about 26 percent of the reports changed, and some of those changes led to earlier identification of cancers,” Dr. Chachoua says. Dr. Chachoua says a full account of how the review board is helping to elevate the treatment of suspicious nodules will be presented at an upcoming national meeting. Abraham Chachoua, MD, is Jay and Isabel Fine Professor of Oncology, section chief of medical oncology, and director of the Lung Cancer Center at Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in treatment of cancers of the lung and chest. Elaine Shum, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine. She specializes in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, small cell lung cancer, and other thoracic cancers. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2022 AUA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health physicians joined their colleagues at the American Urologic Association annual conference in New Orleans, May 13 - 16. Salvage Cryoablation for Radiation-Recurrent Prostate Cancer MRI 12 months following salvage cryotherapy. Red arrow indicates area of ablation. Salvage Cryoablation Following RT Failure For individuals with locally recurrent prostate cancer , salvage cryotherapy has become a preferred treatment option with curative potential. , professor of urology and an early pioneer of the technique, explains that while therapy for patients with radiation-recurrent disease needs to be individualized, salvage cryoablation is often a treatment of choice for patients in this setting. “Cryotherapy ablates all tissue in a targeted area, which allows us to freeze and destroy tissue beyond the confines of the prostate gland, offering an advantage compared to other treatment options,” says Dr. Katz. “We were instrumental in the Medicare coverage determination process for salvage crytotherapy in this setting. It remains an established option for patients with radiation-recurrent disease.” Importance of PSA Monitoring Monitoring prostate-specific antigen (PSA) after treatment of localized disease can lead to the detection of biochemical recurrence. In many cases, rises in serum PSA above baseline do not co-occur with symptoms of recurrent prostate cancer. “For patients with a confirmed rise in serum PSA after prior definitive RT, careful assessment is required to rule out distant metastases,” says Dr. Katz. In the last 5 years, the use of novel PET/CT imaging modalities such as the Axumin (fluciclovine F 18) and PYLARIFY (piflufolastat F 18) scans have dramatically improved the detection of recurrent disease. Both imaging technologies are available at NYU Langone. “After detection of recurrent disease, the goal of salvage cryotherapy is to delay initiation of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT), which can have deleterious side effects,” explains Dr. Katz. Better Outcomes, Covered by Medicare The 5- and 10-year disease-specific survival rates following salvage cryoablation are 91% and 79%, respectively. In addition, the procedure is covered under Medicare for patients with localized disease who have failed a trial of radiation therapy as their primary treatment and meet other conditions. Furthermore, current guidelines from the American Urological Association (AUA) support cryotherapy as an option in this setting. “We were instrumental in the Medicare coverage determination process for salvage crytotherapy in this setting,” says Dr. Katz. “It remains an established option for patients with radiation-recurrent disease.” How Does Cryotherapy Work? Schematic illustration of cryotherapy. ADAPTED FROM: World J Urol. 2019;37(3):409-418. Cryotherapy causes tissue damage and vascular injury around the cryoneedle. The cryotherapy device consists of an ultrasound-guided system, 17-gauge cryoneedles, thermocouples, and argon and helium inlets. The procedure consists of two freeze and thaw cycles. The procedure can take place in an outpatient setting under spinal anesthesia. Magnetic resonance (MR)-guided cryotherapy has proved to allow for real-time imaging of the ablated zone by active monitoring. A Treatment with Curative Potential Cryotherapy being performed in an operating room. For patients with locally recurrent prostate cancer, cryoablation offers the potential for cure. Other salvage treatment options for patients with a positive prostate biopsy, without evidence of metastatic disease, include radical prostatectomy and brachytherapy. However, cryotherapy offers unique advantages compared to these approaches. Benefits of Salvage Cryoablation No hospital stay No transfusions No delayed/long-term complications No risk of secondary malignancy Repeatable Low incontinence rates Minimal anesthesia Quick return to “normal life” Covered by Medicare, Recommended by Guidelines A cryotherapy probe. Medicare covers cryosurgical salvage therapy for patients with localized disease who: (1) have failed a trial of radiation therapy as their primary treatment; and (2) meet one of the following conditions: Stage T2B or below, Gleason score < 9, PSA < 8 ng/mL. Current guidelines from the also support cryotherapy as an option for patients. Additional Clinical Trials for Localized Prostate Cancer In collaboration with Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, , is leading the INTREPId clinical trial evaluating whether darolutamide plus radiation therapy (RT) is non-inferior to GnRH agonist and bicalutamide plus RT for intermediate risk prostate cancer. “The goal of this trial is to determine whether men who receive darolutamide and RT are better able to preserve erectile function without sacrificing the potential for long-term disease control,” says Dr. Katz. Aaron E. Katz, MD, is a professor and chair of urology at NYU Long Island School of Medicine. His research and clinical interests include the use of salvage cryoablation for the treatment of individuals with recurrent prostate cancer after radiation therapy. Most Patients Achieve Orgasm in First Year After Gender-Affirming Vaginoplasty In a study of 199 patients who underwent gender-affirming robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty, 86% who completed one year or more of follow up were orgasmic, and the median time to achieve orgasm post-surgery was 180 days. Some previously anorgasmic patients also became newly orgasmic. ADAPTED FROM: J Sex Med . 2022 March;19:781-788. Journal of Sexual Medicine finds that 86 percent of patients undergoing robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty at NYU Langone Health are able to achieve orgasm within one year of the surgery. “We developed the robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty and we’ve performed more of these procedures than any other center,” says study co-author and urologic surgeon , co-director of transgender reconstructive surgery in . So far, the team has completed more than 500 of the gender-affirming surgeries, with low complication and revision rates. The new retrospective study is the first to quantify the time needed for patients to regain their post-surgery orgasmic ability. “One of the things that’s unique about this study is that people hadn’t really measured it previously,” says study co-author , a urologic surgeon and the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Associate Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery. Pre-surgery, only 81 percent of patients were able to achieve orgasm without difficulty. Post-surgery, Dr. Bluebond-Langner says some of the previously anorgasmic patients became newly orgasmic. “The nerves have to be present,” she says. “But then there’s a mind–body connection, there are hormonal influences, there are emotional influences, and there’s just connecting to your new anatomy.” “Two-thirds of our patients come from out of state. With our close monitoring of patients, we’re able to achieve these excellent outcomes despite many of them coming from far away.” NYU Langone takes a holistic approach to supporting patients in their post-surgical care, Dr. Zhao notes, with the involvement of nurse navigators, social workers, physical therapists, and other specialists. “Two-thirds of our patients come from out of state,” he says. “With our close monitoring of patients, we’re able to achieve these excellent outcomes despite many of them coming from far away.” “Patients proceed at their own rate, so not everyone is going to orgasm on the same post-operative timetable. Just because it takes longer doesn’t mean it won’t happen, and I think in that sense, providing data can often be very encouraging for patients.” The personalized follow-up, Dr. Bluebond-Langner adds, is a big key to the success of the gender-affirming surgery. “It’s important to emphasize that patients proceed at their own rate, so not everyone is going to orgasm on the same post-operative timetable,” she says. “Just because it takes longer doesn’t mean it won’t happen, and I think in that sense, providing data can often be very encouraging for patients.” Plastic Surgery, Gender Affirming Surgery Rachel Bluebond-Langner, MD, is the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Associate Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery and an associate professor of urology. Lee C. Zhao, MD (He/Him) Reconstructive Genitourinary Surgery, Gender Affirming Surgery Lee C. Zhao, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Urology and Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery, co-director of transgender reconstructive surgery in Transgender Surgery Services. He specializes in reconstructive surgery for reproductive organs and the urinary system. Confronting Social Media’s Double-Edged Influence in Urology A noted physician-researcher and population health expert, , is interested in the impact of social media on men’s health decision-making. Her research quantifying the extent of misinformation across social media platforms has been published in BJU International, European Urology, Nature Reviews Urology, and Reviews in Urology. Here, Dr. Loeb shares how those research findings inform her clinical care and population health initiatives. Your research has revealed just how strongly social media impacts public understanding of urologic conditions. How have you and your colleagues approached that research? For as long as we’ve had social media, we’ve known it can be a powerful patient education tool—and a source of harmful misinformation. For several years we’ve worked to quantify misinformation around urologic conditions, finding substantial bias and erroneous information across multiple conditions and social media platforms. In one , for example, we found that out of 150 YouTube bladder cancer videos, 67 percent contained poor-quality information. Considering these videos reached more than 1.2 million people, that’s a concern. Similar findings have been reflected in our other studies, including high levels of biased and misinformative content about prostate cancer on YouTube, TikTok and Instagram. What does your research indicate about potential methods to combat urologic misinformation online? We’ve studied short- and long-term solutions to address the misinformation problem. Much of our focus has been on disseminating evidence-based information about urologic health conditions to increase engagement around vetted content and key research. For example, with the Prostate Cancer Foundation, I launched a Prostate Cancer Journal Club on Twitter, where we engage in a global discussion with multidisciplinary audiences—scientists, providers, patients, and other stakeholders—around important research articles and findings. Long-term, we have a collaboration with computer scientists at the University of Michigan, examining whether machine learning can be used to automatically detect misinformation about prostate cancer. If our algorithm could accurately identify misinformation in online content, this could be used to help provide a smarter search filter for health consumers. You’ve highlighted the downfalls of social media and medical information. Are there any benefits? When we can get high-quality, evidence-based information out to more patients and their families, social media offers enormous benefits in terms of education and empowerment. Social media also offers healthcare providers a source of freely available content to understand unmet needs of patients and families and adjust our practice accordingly. For example, as part of a grant from the Department of Defense, we are investigating sexual health among partners of patients with prostate cancer. We’ve examined data from online health communities in which partners describe substantial changes in their sexual quality of life that weren’t addressed by physicians. This provides insights into gaps in care and future resources that may be helpful. You’ve been recognized for your leadership in research—you were awarded a Gold Cytoscope Award from the American Urological Association for research in prostate cancer screening and surveillance. As one of relatively few female leaders in urology research and care, how do you think the field can become more diverse? Loeb: Currently only about 10 percent of practicing U.S. urologists are female. I strive to mentor young physicians and scientists interested in careers in medicine. While NYU Langone has relatively many female leaders in the specialty, there is still a lot of work to do to achieve gender equity in urology. Our group recently published a paper highlighting the substantial prevalence of so-called “manels,” or all-male panels, at major urology meetings. It’s important to define and quantify these issues to identify solutions. Social media is helpful to raise awareness of the need for greater diversity in the field. A recent campaign has used the hashtag #ilooklikeaurologist to promote diversity and advocate for more inclusive policies in the field. What additional research questions in social media and urology are you exploring? Through another Department of Defense grant, our team is investigating disparities in online prostate cancer information. Although Black men have a higher risk of prostate cancer and death, we’ve found an under representation of Black adults in online prostate cancer content. We are currently studying whether this has an impact for clinical decision-making among Black men with prostate cancer. Much of my research is inspired by the diversity of my patient population, whose care informs new research questions. At the same time, it’s very rewarding to bring research insights back to patients in the clinic to enhance the quality of their care. Applying 3D Treatment Planning to Prostate Cryoablation A novel three-dimensional (3D) planning technique could optimize treatment planning for partial gland cryoablation, according to a recent pilot study The new technique could overcome the shortcomings of two-dimensional (2D) imaging for preablation treatment planning. With respect to prostate cancer cryoablation, there are no commercially available software tools to guide treatment in 3D. , and his research team developed the patient-specific 3D models using multi-parametric MRI (mpMRI), as well as virtual 3D cryotherapy probes to simulate the procedure. “Prior to cryoablation, we use virtual 3D planning to confirm the required number and placement of cryoprobes to achieve confluent treatment volume for each unique lesion and margin, more accurately estimating treatment volume, and thus, predicting a larger number of cryoprobes,” says Wysock. Targeting A Key Challenge Partial gland ablation for prostate cancer limits side effects by focusing treatment to only regions of known cancer and preserving the surrounding healthy tissue. Increasingly, mpMRI has been utilized for detection, localization, and staging of prostate cancer While organ-sparing treatment strategies have been widely employed for other malignancies, such as kidney and breast cancer, Wysock says this approach for prostate cancer has been limited by challenges in precise determination of tumor location and volume within the prostate gland. “Achieving a confluent ‘kill zone’ for MRI-guided prostate gland ablation has remained a significant challenge.” Precise Location Prediction In their pilot study, Wysock and his team used the 3D prostate cancer models, mpMRI, and 3D visualization software to plan and simulate a theoretic zone of cryoablation. Twenty men were included in a 3D planning cohort and outcomes were compared to 20 others undergoing partial gland cryoablation using traditional 2D planning techniques. “Our 3D models conceptualize the location of the tumor within the prostate, as well as provide guidance on the extent of the necessary treatment margin.” After analysis, the researchers demonstrated that the virtual cryotherapy probes predicted the exact “kill zone” preoperatively, providing novel guidance for the operating procedure. In addition, at the time of follow-up biopsy, more men in the 3D planning group were negative for prostate cancer as compared to those in the 2D planning group. “Our 3D models conceptualize the location of the tumor within the prostate, as well as provide guidance on the extent of the necessary treatment margin to predict an adequate ‘kill’ zone,” Wysock says. Future studies with more patients will investigate how this method compares to traditional 2D planning, as well as how it impacts long-term treatment efficacy. Wysock says that while the findings are an important first step, meaningful differences between 3D and traditional 2D planning could not be validated in this pilot study due to the small cohort and retrospective nature. “In the future, 3D planning may allow for a more comprehensive assessment of the coverage area needed for successful tumor ablation. Our results encourage further study in a larger cohort.” Pushing Novel Therapeutics for Bladder Cancer Through to the Finish Line Gary D. Steinberg, MD and colleagues. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In this era of bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) shortage , the need for alternative treatments for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) has never been more evident. Internationally renowned as an expert on novel therapeutics for NMIBC, , is leading several clinical trials aimed at testing innovative new treatment options for this complicated disease. Here, he discusses the explosion of new trials and concepts around NMIBC treatment, shares what is needed to propel research forward, and provides insight into the changing role of surgery. Engaging the Immune System Of the many research activities that you are working on, which are you most excited about? Dr. Steinberg: I’m currently very interested in newer forms of immunotherapy, whether it’s oncolytic vaccines, antibody-drug conjugates, or cytokine therapy. Like other highly mutated cancers, bladder cancer appears to respond better to the immune system, so I’m interested in looking at how we can best utilize the immune system to fight the disease. One new treatment option that I’m particularly excited about is the CG0070 vaccine. It has a GM-CSF (granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor) gene in it to stimulate immune cell recruitment and it is designed to replicate in RB (retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein) mutated or -deficient tumor cells. Since roughly 80 percent of patients with high-grade bladder cancer have mutations or deficiencies, it could benefit a lot of patients. We are now testing CG0070 in combination with pembrolizumab through the CORE-001 trial , for which I am the national principal investigator. This pairing may help combat the potential resistance mechanism of PD-L1 induction seen with immune cell death. Intravesical Gene Therapy You are also serving as the national PI for the LEGEND trial , that is testing the safety and efficacy of a non-viral gene therapy designed to elicit a local immune response. Can you tell us more about this treatment approach? For LEGEND, we are focusing on delivering genes for the cytokines RIG-1, an innate immune stimulator, and IL-12, a T-cell stimulator, directly to the uroepithelium. This way we stimulate both arms of the immune system. But you can put anything you want into this delivery system. You can encode IL-15 or even a checkpoint inhibitor, like a PD-1 inhibitor. I think it provides a unique avenue for a variety of gene products and cytokines to draw different responses from the immune system. Antibody-Drug Conjugates phase 1 clinical trial recently opened to assess intravesical enfortumab vedotin for treatment of NMIBC, and you are helping lead this study as well. Tell us more about this antibody-drug conjugate. Enfortumab vedotin delivers the tumor-killing drug monomethyl auristatin E directly to the tumor, taking out cancer cells without harming neighboring healthy cells. It’s incredibly active in metastatic bladder cancer and I believe that it is going to be our most effective antibody-drug conjugate in NMIBC. Perlmutter Cancer Center is the first site to start enrolling participants for this study. The Impact of BCAN To drive advancements in bladder cancer treatment, you helped found the highly successful Bladder Cancer Advocacy Network ( CAN ). Tell us more about the impact of this network. Bladder cancer research was a desert up until 15 years ago when we created BCAN. The first meeting was simply a group of urologists all interested in moving the field forward. Over the past 15 years, we’ve created an organization for patients and helped make bladder cancer one of the hottest areas of research. “Over the past 15 years, we’ve created an organization for patients and helped make bladder cancer one of the hottest areas of research.” We’ve brought together urologists with pharmaceutical companies, medical oncologists, pathologists, scientists, and radiation oncologists. As a result of this dialogue, pharmaceutical companies are stepping up to the plate to help drive a lot of this innovation and new drug development. The Importance of National Guidelines What do you think is needed in order to propel these emerging therapeutic strategies across the finish line? As a urologic community, I think it’s critically important that we follow guidelines in the management of NMIBC. All too often, the management of NMIBC is all over the map, making it more difficult to interpret outcomes from various treatments and to enroll patients in clinical trials. First and foremost, to help advance research, I really encourage urologists to follow national guidelines from the American Urology Association Society of Urologic Oncology National Comprehensive Cancer Network on the management of NMIBC. Radical Cystectomy is Still a Cornerstone With so many promising new treatments on the horizon, can you speak to how the role of surgery in NMIBC may be evolving? In the situation where we can preserve bladders because we have better treatments against high-risk NMIBC, we will hopefully be able to avoid recommending or utilizing radical cystectomy. It is clear that patients would like to preserve their bladder at all costs. Having said that, radical cystectomy is still the cornerstone of management for muscle invasive bladder cancer and high-risk NMIBC. All too often, patients will be treated for NMIBC and the disease will progress to muscle invasive disease. By the time that happens, patients frequently have locally advanced if not metastatic disease. There’s a fine line between properly preserving bladders, but not overdoing it. Dr. Steinberg isa member of Clinical Trial Protocol Committees for the following companies: Merck, BMS, Janssen, CG Oncology, Pfizer, PhotoCure, Fidia, Seagen, Protara. He is or has been a scientific advisor/consultant within the past 5 years for the following companies: Heat Biologics; CG Oncology; PhotoCure; Merck; Roche/Genentech; Ciclomed; Taris Biomedical (Now Janssen); MDxHealth; Fidia Farmaceuticals; Urogen, Ferring; Aduro; Boston Scientific; Bristol Myers Squibb; Astra Zeneca; Pfizer, Janssen; Epivax Therapeutics; Natera; FKD; EnGene Bio; SesenBio; BioCanCell (Now Archiano); Nucleix; Ipsen; Combat Medical; Astellas; Fergene; Dendreon; Abbvie; Seattle Genetics; Verity Pharmaceuticals, Regeneron, STIMIT, Vyriad, Protara, xCures. He has equity stock/options in Epivax Therapeutics, and Urogen. Challenges in Managing Small Renal Masses A trio of cases demonstrate the need to carefully weigh diagnosis and treatment. New Classification System for Urethral Stricture Disease The easy-to-use system will fill a longstanding gap in researching urethral strictures. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2022 AUA Annual Meeting The Annual Meeting of the American Urologic Association returned to New Orleans, and this year, physicians representing the Department of Urology at NYU Langone Health presented on topics ranging from cryoablative therapies for prostate cancer to gender-affirming surgery. View Friday, May 13 Abstract Presentation Systematic Review of the Impact of a Plant-Based Diet on Prostate Cancer Incidence and Outcomes , Jacob Taylor, MD, James Borin, MD , Kenneth Jacobsohn, MD, Stacey Kenfield, ScD, Scott Eggener, MD, Hiten Patel, MD, Carrie Price, Meena Davuluri, MD, Nataliya Byrne, Trinity Bivalacqua, MD, PhD, Speaker: Natasha Gupta Patient Perspectives in Genital Gender-Affirming Surgery: The Need for Patient Reported Outcome Measures Nnenaya Agochukwu-Mmonu, MD , Elijah Castle, Asa E. Radix, MD, PhD Daphna Harel , Clarissa Ospina-Norvell, NP, Carolyn Berry, PhD Speaker: Elijah Castle Monday, May 16 Outcomes of Penile Prosthesis Implantation in Transgender Neophallus: A Single Center Experience Authors: Jesse Persily, Begoña Etcheverry, MD, Kirtishri Mishra, MD , Gaines Blasdel, Rachel Bluebond-Langer, MD Speaker: Jesse Persily 5-year Oncologic Outcomes at a Single-Institution Following Focal Cryotherapy for Prostate Cancer Management Authors: Ashley Monaco, Jessica Sommer, Meredith Akerman Speaker: Ashley Monaco A Prospective Longitudinal Study of Erectile Function Following Partial Gland Cryoablation for Intermediate Risk Prostate Cancer Authors: Sameer Thakker, , Rozalba Gogaj, MD, Speaker: Sameer Thakker Focal Cryotherapy and Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy Have Similar Oncologic and Functional Outcomes in Treatment of Low-to-Intermediate Unilobe Prostate Cancer Chinyere Okpara Combating GvHD with New Drug Combinations New trials aim to reduce universal problem of GvHD after allogeneic transplant. A Milestone for Precision Medicine: FDA Clears NYU Genome PACT Test A gene sequencing test holds revolutionary potential for cancer treatment. Schedule an Urgent Care Visit We have locations in Manhattan, as well as Virtual Urgent Care video visits. If you are experiencing an injury or illness and you’re unable to get an appointment with your doctor, NYU Langone has several urgent care options to ensure you get the care you need as quickly and conveniently as possible. We offer specialized emergency care for adults and children. We offer urgent care services in Manhattan at . Our doctors are available for extended hours during the week, as well as on the weekend, and are able to perform minor procedures, bloodwork, and imaging services. Virtual Urgent Care video visits , so you can video chat with an NYU Langone care provider when you are at home, at work, or even when you’re traveling. When to Seek Urgent Care Urgent care services performed at NYU Langone are covered by a variety of insurance plans. Common conditions that can be diagnosed and treated by an urgent care doctor include the following: colds and flu sore throat or strep throat cough, bronchitis, or pneumonia urinary tract infection (UTI) sexually transmitted disease (STD) evaluation and treatment nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, or dehydration cuts and broken bones sports injuries For medical emergencies such as chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, stroke-related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in personal harm or harm to others, please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency care location. Urgent Care at NYU Langone Ambulatory Care West Side 355 West 52nd Street, 8th Floor, New York, NY, 10019 646-754-2599 Urgent Care at NYU Langone at Trinity A Parents’ Guide to Virtual Urgent Care for Kids Advice on Caring for Children’s Respiratory Illnesses RSV Is Spreading Among Kids—Here’s When to See a Doctor Virtual Urgent Care Helps a Busy Family Run Smoothly Virtual Urgent Care to the Rescue for Late-Night UTI Pains How a Dozen Doctors Saved Two Lives in One Over 22 Days Telemedicine Provides an Ideal Containment Tool for COVID-19 Telemedicine Transforms Response to COVID-19 Virtual Urgent Care Medical Director on COVID-19 Pandemic A Milestone for Precision Medicine: FDA Clears NYU Genome PACT Test The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has given the green light to NYU Langone Health’s Genome PACT (Profiling of Actionable Cancer Targets) test—a novel sequencing tool that detects changes in hundreds of genes simultaneously. The groundbreaking technology is expected to revolutionize cancer screening over the coming decade. PACT designer , is the director of molecular pathology and diagnostics in the Department of Pathology. He works in collaboration with senior leadership at the Perlmutter Cancer Center to develop state of the art diagnostics for patients with cancer. “Our next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based pan-cancer test rapidly analyzes multiple genes at once to help clinicians choose the right cancer-specific treatment at the right time.” “The NYU Langone Genome PACT test detects changes in a panel of 607 genes, many of which will be important for optimizing selection of next-generation anti-cancer therapeutics in the coming years,” Snuderl says. “Our next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based pan-cancer test rapidly analyzes multiple genes at once to help clinicians choose the right cancer-specific treatment at the right time.” Designing the Test The test covers the most genes of any FDA-cleared NGS panel to date and matches patients with approved targeted therapies for the treatment of a variety of solid tumors. It includes genes related to compounds currently in clinical trials, or in some cases, where the evidence is strongly linked to cancers by basic science studies. The researchers also intend to expand the panel as more target genes are identified. In addition, the NYU Genome PACT test result includes eligibility for specific clinical trials for a given patient. The test is coupled with a unique bioinformatics system that converts complex genomic data into a report that identifies specific genes that are mutated in a tumor sample. Each report includes specific treatment recommendations for a given patient and a specific type of cancer, fully personalizing genomic medicine, Snuderl says. “There are significant gaps in molecular testing for patients with different types of cancer, especially in the community. Future plans include expanding access to this test, making it available for patients outside of NYU. Our leadership is discussing strategies for expanded access right now.” Development and Collaboration In collaboration with the healthcare technology company Philips, Snuderl and his team built a cloud-based interface capable of genomic processing, interpretation, and reporting. The interface integrates with NYU Langone Health’s electronic medical records system to form an integrated knowledge database, capable of seamlessly coordinating follow-up testing. “Our collaboration with Philips has been incredibly fruitful and productive,” says Snuderl. “The PACT test was intentionally designed to be integrated into electronic medical records, such that tests can be ordered, reviewed, and shared by a patient’s care team.” FDA 510(k) Clearance The NYU Langone Genome PACT test received 510(k) FDA clearance on July 15, 2021. While not required for an NGS-based test, 510(k) clearance is a stringent process for obtaining approval to market a device and is important for reimbursement from payers. “At the end of the day, FDA clearance is the highest bar for a laboratory test, and is really the gold standard,” says Snuderl. “We are only the second academic center to get such a panel approved; the FDA clearance is a significant accomplishment.” It is highly unusual for an academic medical center to apply for a test to be cleared by the FDA, Snuderl explained, but the NYU Langone team chose to do so to ensure that its test met the most stringent standards as it moves to the clinic. “Receiving FDA 510(k) clearance was a highly complex process that took us over two years to obtain. I believe this will be a key differentiator for our test moving forward.” Broad Implications Snuderl and his team will to continue to measure the test’s impact on patient outcomes. He believes the test will have important implications for patient care, research, healthcare costs, and policy. Currently, the PACT test is only available for use by patients of NYU Langone Health. This work was supported by funding from the Department of Pathology at NYU Langone and Perlmutter Cancer Center, as well as by gifts from the Gray Foundation, The Holliday Foundation, Randye and Brian Kwait, Making Headway Foundation, and The Ambrose Monell Foundation. Molecular Pathology Matija Snuderl, MD, is an associate professor of pathology. He also serves as director of molecular pathology and diagnostics. His research centers around biomarker discovery to improve brain tumor diagnostics and therapeutics. Combating GvHD with New Drug Combinations Samer Al-Homsi, MD, MBA. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Several new trials of novel drug combinations are underway aimed at preventing graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) after allogeneic transplant. “With the current GvHD prevention regimen, GvHD still occurs in its acute or chronic forms in at least 50 and 30 percent of patients, respectively,” says Samer Al-Homsi, MD , executive director of the Bone Marrow Transplant Center, who is leading the studies. “The goal is to develop innovative strategies for GvHD prevention to improve the results of mismatched unrelated and haploidentical donor transplants and increase the wide applicability of these regimens,” Dr. Al-Homsi says. Abatacept in Combination The drug abatacept has conventionally been used to treat some forms of arthritis, but has also shown to lower incidence of GvHD in fully- and near-matched donor allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) when administered in combination with methotrexate and tacrolimus. As a result, abatacept received accelerated approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the prevention of GvHD. , Dr. Al-Homsi and his team are examining whether the combination of cyclophosphamide, abatacept, and short-duration tacrolimus is safe and effective for GvHD prophylaxis following haploidentical transplantation. “We believe that the enhanced efficacy of the abatacept-containing regimen will also allow us to shorten the duration of tacrolimus, an immunosuppressant, thus allowing faster recovery of the immune system following allogeneic transplantation,” Al-Homsi says. The researchers are currently enrolling adults with hematological malignancies undergoing allogeneic HSCT from a first- or second-degree haploidentical donor. Additional Combinations Dr. Al-Homsi and his team are leading another phase II clinical trial examining the combination of cyclophosphamide and bortezomib (a proteasome inhibitor). While both drugs are FDA approved for other indications, the researchers hypothesize the novel combo may act synergistically to inhibit the development of GvHD in patients with various blood cancers. The clinical trial team is adults with hematological malignancies undergoing allogeneic HSCT from a matched-related or unrelated donor. “If we can transplant safely without GvHD, we could complete solid organ transplantation and blood transplant at the same time, sparing patients life-long immunosuppression.” Furthering Progress in Transplantation Looking ahead, these and other combinations may eliminate the need for traditional prophylactic drugs and are particularly useful for those with impaired kidney function, a patient population not commonly offered transplantation, Dr. Al-Homsi says. “Preventing GvHD has important implications for solid organ transplantation as well. If we can transplant safely without GvHD, we could complete solid organ transplantation and blood transplant at the same time, sparing patients life-long immunosuppression.” New Classification System for Urethral Stricture Disease ADAPTED FROM: Urology. 2020 Sep;143:241-247. LSE Urethral Stricture Classification The new LSE urethral stricture classification system is determined by length (L), segment (S), and etiology (E). Length is surgically based: less than or equal to 2 cm, greater than 2 cm and less than or equal to 7 cm, or greater than 7 cm. The segment indicates bulbar versus penile urethra involvement. The etiology indicates the clinical predictability of urethral tissue within and surrounding the urethral stricture during urethroplasty. Urethral stricture disease (USD) is a heterogeneous condition with poorly understood pathophysiology. The lack of a classification system for USD has slowed progress in research across institutions to advance new treatments. Reconstructive urologists needed a system to allow us to do the same for urethral strictures.” “Oncologists can use the TNM system to classify disease and compare treatments. We reconstructive urologists needed a system to allow us to do the same for urethral strictures says , a specialist in surgery for urethral strictures. The new LSE urethral stricture classification system was recently created by the Trauma and Urologic Reconstruction Network of Surgeons (TURNS), of which Dr. Zhao is a participant. The system incorporates three elements (length, urethral segment, and etiology), includes clinically relevant subcategories, and is based on readily available clinical data. In developing the LSE classification system, importance was placed on ensuring high interrater reliability, or a high likelihood that different clinical observers would classify an individual case of USD the same way. Using the LSE classification, review of 2,162 strictures revealed the system to be strongly associated with urethroplasty type and etiology. Dr. Zhao, an author of the LSE classification system, expects it to be widely utilized among urologists to discuss the treatment of urethral strictures. Challenges in Managing Small Renal Masses William C. Huang, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Subtleties Drive Treatment A series of three cases at NYU Langone Health illustrate how management is evolving for small renal masses (SRMs), says urologic oncologist , a member of the American Society of Clinical Oncology Guidelines Panel for SRMs. Instead of radical nephrectomy, Dr. Huang and colleagues increasingly opt for kidney-sparing options including active surveillance, ablation, or partial nephrectomy. The shift reflects earlier SRM detection due to imaging advances, plus a relatively low risk of disease progression Here, the first two cases were treated with robotic partial nephrectomy, the third, active surveillance. Dr. Huang notes that currently, the majority of patients with SRMs in the United States still receive immediate, active treatment. He attributes this to reactivity and biases in risk perception. “Up to 20 percent of surgically resected SRMs are benign. In spite of the exceedingly low risk of cancer spread, there is still a great amount of anxiety among patients and referring providers prompting immediate treatment for cancers that can be appropriately closely monitored.” “We must educate patients and providers about the very low oncologic risk attributable to SRMs.” Oncocytomas, such as in the first case, have overlapping features with malignant renal masses and can appear similar to clear cell renal carcinoma on imaging, Dr. Huang says, emphasizing pretreatment imaging or biopsy to differentiate this benign lesion from kidney cancer. Comprehensive imaging, such as in the second case, can support Bosniak classification but still can fail in accurately differentiating a cystic renal cell carcinoma from a benign complex cyst. The third case reinforces the need to consider whether a patient will truly benefit from any treatment, regardless of risk. Dr. Huang’s team opted for active surveillance for this patient—who died five months later due to a comorbidity. Says Dr. Huang, “We must educate patients and providers about the very low oncologic risk attributable to SRMs, allowing them to make informed treatment selections.” Malignant Appearing Small Mass to Oncocytoma For the first case, a healthy, 39-year-old man presented with abdominal pain, and a CT scan revealed a 2.2 centimeter enhancing solid mass (red circle). The man received a robotic partial nephrectomy. Upon pathology, the excised oncocytoma showed diffuse reactivity for the oncogenic marker CD117 and scattered positivity for CK7. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Benign Multi-Locular Cyst Appears as a Suspicious Malignant Cyst In a second case, providers identified a mass in a healthy 54-year-old man: an incidental 2.5 centimeter complex cyst on chest CT (red circle) that was later confirmed via MRI as a 2.6 centimeter cystic left upper pole renal lesion. The septated mass had a thick rim and was rated Bosniak category III. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Comorbidity Considerations Essential The third case involved a 59-year-old man with a history of cardiovascular conditions, including coronary artery disease, severe aortic regurgitation, a cerebrovascular accident, and a thoracic aortic aneurysm repair. He had a biopsy-proven, enlarging solid 2.2 centimeter papillary renal cell carcinoma (red circle). PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff William C. Huang, MD, is a professor of urology and radiology, vice chair for clinical affairs in the Department of Urology, and co-director of the Robotic Surgery Center. He is also chief of urology at Tisch Hospital. As a urologic oncologist, his research focuses on novel therapeutics and surgical approaches for kidney and bladder cancers. People who have been diagnosed with are invited to attend an education program hosted by the Bronchiectasis and NTM Program The NTM Patient Education Program was created in 2015 to give those living with these conditions the unique opportunity to interact directly with our physicians, ask questions, and learn about the latest advances in the diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections. First North American Bronchiectasis and NTM Patient Education Program Bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together on December 10, 2024, to discuss the latest breakthroughs in and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders and summarize current research. View presentation videos 2024 Bronchiectatasis and NTM Education Program Our bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together on April 9, 2024, to discuss the latest breakthroughs in diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders and summarize current research. 2023 Bronchiectasis and NTM Education Program Our bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together to discuss the latest breakthroughs in diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders and summarize current research. 2022 Bronchiectasis and NTM Education Program 2020 Bronchiectasis and NTM Patient Education Program During this program, our experts discussed new NTM therapies, treatment guidelines, and ongoing clinical trials. Presentations included the following: Interaction with the Internal and External Environments, presented by View presentation What’s New in the NTM Treatment Guidelines?, presented by Update on M. Abscessus and New Therapies for NTM, presented by Diagnostic and Treatment Options for Gastroesophageal Reflux and Bronchiectasis, presented by Abraham Khan, MD NTM Clinical Trials at NYU Langone Health, presented by 2019 Bronchiectasis and NTM Patient Education Program Our bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together to discuss the latest breakthroughs in diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders, and summarize current research. Presentations included the following: NYU Langone NTM Program Research, presented by Environmental Sources for NTM Infection: Where Is It?, presented by Dr. Kamelhar Nonpharmacologic Therapies and Airway Clearance Techniques in Bronchiectasis, presented by Dr. Basavaraj : Update on Management, presented by Dr. Addrizzo-Harris 2017 NTM Patient Education Program NYU Langone experts discussed the latest advances in diagnosis, treatment, and research on NTM infections and related disorders at the 2017 NTM Patient Education Program. Presentations included the following: Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Infection Epidemiology and Evaluation, presented by Dr. Kamelhar Nontuberculous Mycobacterium: Management, presented by Dr. Addrizzo-Harris The Association of Reflux and Aspiration with NTM, presented by Dr. Khan Dysphagia in NTM, presented by Stamatela Matina Balou, PhD For more information on upcoming events, please email Marla.Hymes@NYULangone.org When you come to one of NYU Langone’s emergency care locations, we assess your condition, provide you with the appropriate care, and determine next steps for treatment. At NYU Langone, it is our to provide treatment free from discrimination of any kind. When You See an Expert As our patient, you receive timely and efficient care. We strive to make sure that all patients can see a doctor or physician assistant for an initial assessment within 15 minutes of arrival, and those with life-threatening conditions are evaluated immediately. During this time, we may also expedite any needed laboratory tests or imaging exams to help us make a diagnosis. For your safety, multiple members of the staff may ask you the same questions. We want to fully understand your story to provide you with the best treatment possible. To respect your privacy, we make every effort to speak softly in open care spaces. We also invite you and your loved ones to ask questions about your treatment and condition. Please tell us if you are in pain or if what we are doing to manage your pain isn’t working so we can help. You and your family are the most important members of our team. Inpatient and Outpatient Emergency Care After your initial assessment, if your illness or condition requires more extensive care, you may be hospitalized. When a bed is ready on one of our inpatient units, a member of our emergency care team accompanies you to your room. We also offer observation services for conditions that require a brief period of hospitalization. We understand that having your loved ones nearby may make you feel more comfortable. We may ask guests to temporarily step out of a patient’s room when we have to perform procedures or when the room is too crowded. Please ask your care team if you have any questions about your treatment. We encourage you to be actively involved in your care. After Your Emergency Care Visit When your doctors and nurses are satisfied that you are well enough to leave the hospital, they prepare you for discharge. Everyone receives a discharge plan, a plan of care for when you are at home, and summary of your visit. One to three days after your discharge, someone from our emergency department contacts you regarding follow-up care. We want to help you with anything you may need, including scheduling doctor appointments or obtaining medications. If you live outside of the United States and need additional care after discharge, please contact our . Our staff is available 9:00AM to 5:00PM, Monday through Friday. Accepted Insurance Plans for Urgent Care at NYU Langone Urgent care services performed at NYU Langone may be covered by your insurance plan. Please review our list of insurance plans that we accept. Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS Florida Blue Options PPO BCBS Florida MyBlue HMO BCBS Florida Simply Blue BCBS Florida Blue Medicare PPO BCBS Florida Blue Care HMO BCBS Florida Traditional PPC First Health HIP VIP Medicare Bold Local 1199 NYSHIP - The Empire Plan Qualcare Inc. Railroad Medicare United Healthcare VA Community Care Network Our doctors are located throughout the New York City area. 646-501-7890 At NYU Langone’s Anosmia Center, our team of otolaryngologists—also known as ear, nose, and throat doctors—are experts at diagnosing and treating anosmia, or the loss of smell. The process of smell is a unique connection between the brain and the nerve cells in the nose, called olfactory cells. When a scent molecule is released from an object such as a warm chocolate chip cookie, it stimulates the olfactory cells, which then send scent information to the brain, where the smell is interpreted and identified. Without smell, taste is also affected, since our taste buds can detect few flavors on their own. This can lead to a loss of interest in food, which can cause weight loss and possibly malnutrition. Anosmia may also affect quality of life by diminishing the ability to experience enjoyable smells. People who have anosmia are also more likely to consume spoiled or unsafe food, and be less aware of smells that indicate imminent danger such as smoke or natural gas. Colds, allergies, sinus infections, and viral infections such as the or COVID-19 can all cause anosmia. It can also be caused by nasal polyps or other blockages, tumors, or a . Conditions such as can also damage or deteriorate the nerves leading to the area of the brain that detects smell, causing anosmia. Diagnosing Anosmia Anosmia is often temporary, but if your sense of smell does not return after an illness, our otolaryngologists can help. When you come to the Anosmia Center, our physicians determine the cause of your smell disturbance through a thorough evaluation of your medical history and physical examination. To get a closer look at the inside of your nasal passages, your doctor uses a light and a hand-held instrument called a speculum. The speculum is used to gently widen the nostrils, so doctors can see the interior tissues and bone structure of the nose. Your doctor may also perform a nasal endoscopy, which is a diagnostic exam that provides a detailed view of the nasal passages. To perform this procedure, your doctor first sprays your nose with a decongestant to open up the nasal passages and a local anesthetic solution to reduce any discomfort. The doctor then inserts a thin fiber-optic instrument called an endoscope through each nostril. An endoscopy of the nasal passages and throat can reveal sources of any obstruction that could cause anosmia. This procedure takes only a couple of minutes and takes place in your doctor’s office. If your doctor needs more information, they may order an , which uses a magnetic field and radio waves to create images. MRI scans can detect whether there is in obstruction or deformity in the soft tissues of the head and neck causing anosmia. Once your doctor determines the primary cause of anosmia, they can develop a personalized treatment plan. For example, if you have sinusitis, medication can help restore your sense of smell. If a nasal polyp, tumor, or deformity is causing the anosmia, your otolaryngologist may recommend surgery to correct it. Post-COVID Anosmia Care If your loss of smell persists several months after recovering from COVID-19, our doctors may recommend smell retraining. Smell retraining involves repeatedly sniffing different smells while looking at a picture of each scent to help stimulate the olfactory system and establish a memory of that smell. Your doctor gives you a set of small glass jars with lids that each contain a small amount of an essential oil. The scents are often common smells that everyone can identify, such as grass, chocolate, lemon, mint, and coffee. At least two or three times a day, you smell the oil in each jar for 10 to 20 seconds while looking at a picture of the scent. While sniffing, you concentrate on your memory of the smell. After smelling each scent, you take a few deep breaths to clear your nasal passages and then move on to the next scent. Smell retraining is performed daily for about 12 weeks. Since the beginning of the pandemic, NYU Langone doctors have treated large numbers of people with COVID-19. This experience, along with our focus on long-term COVID-19 symptoms , have given our team the skills and experience necessary to understand and address their impact on your health and give you the best possible chance to regain your sense of smell. To schedule an appointment, please browse our Our team of ear, nose, and throat specialists are experts at treating anosmia. Maria W. Casey Megan M. Gaffey Marie T. Homsi Stephen G. Rothstein Sabrina Tarafdar Zahrah Taufique At NYU Langone’s Asthma Program, we provide comprehensive care to adults with and specialize in treating those whose disease is severe or difficult to control. We offer complete care to people with asthma that is caused by or related to other conditions, such as allergies, , or sinus disease. Our team works closely with other NYU Langone experts, including allergists, otolaryngologists, and gastroenterologists, to offer the most advanced, customized treatments available. Care in our program begins with a comprehensive medical history. During your first appointment, our experts spend time discussing your lifestyle, home and work environments, diet, allergies, and whether you have exposure to inhalants that irritate the lungs. We also conduct a physical exam and use pulmonary function testing to tailor a treatment plan to your specific needs and lifestyle. If your asthma is severe, our experts determine whether precision biologic therapy is appropriate for you. This type of treatment blocks inflammatory reactions in the body that lead to asthma symptoms and can be very effective for people with severe allergic or eosinophilic asthma. Our dedicated asthma educator, Tsering Tenzing, FNP-BC, counsels people about a range of asthma-related issues, from using an inhaler and exercising safely and comfortably to ways to avoid triggers. She helps you optimize asthma control so that you breathe easily and enjoy a full and active life. Our experts use the most advanced diagnostic techniques and treatments to care for people who have asthma. Francis Adams Gail E. Schattner
